
FROM:  HABANA

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1097, SEPTEMBER 2

PRIORITY

GENERAL ASSEMBLY CUBAN PEOPLE NO. 2

VIOLETA CASAL ANNOUNCED 4:35 P.M. ASSEMBLY ABOUT TO START.  INTRODUCED
PRESIDENT DORTICOS.

DORTICOS DECLARED ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE FORMALLY OPEN.  EXPLAINED
ASSEMBLY CALLED TO PRESENT CUBAN PEOPLE'S ANSWER TO AGGRESSION COMMITTED
AGAINST CUBA BY DECLARATION OF SAN JOSE.

IMMEDIATELY INTRODUCED FIDEL CASTRO.

CASTRO BEGAN SPEAKING AT 4:53 P.M.

FOLLOWING IS RUNNING ACCOUNT OF HIS SPEECH:

"IT IS EVIDENT THAT YOU CAN HAVE NO IDEA OF IMMENSITY OF CROWD WHICH HAS
GATHERED.  IT IS VERITABLE HUMAN SEA.  WE LEADERS OF REVOLUTIONARY
GOVERNMENT DEEPLY MOVED BY SCENE WHICH IMPRESSES ON US DIMENSION OUR
RESPONSIBILITY.

WE HAVE MET TO CONVERSE TODAY, ESPECIALLY ON INTERNATIONAL MATTERS. OUR
PEOPLE KNOW BATTLE WHICH IT IS FIGHTING FOR ITS SURVIVAL. TOO BAD THAT 21
FOREIGN MINISTERS OF AMERICA ARE NOT HERE TO WITNESS THIS DEBATE OF ISSUES
TAKEN UP AT SAN JOSE. TOO BAD THEY CANNOT SEE CUBAN PEOPLE THEY CONDEMNED.
TO BAD THEY CANNOT SEE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LANGUAGE OF CHANCELLORIES AND
LANGUAGE OF PEOPLE. MAJORITY OF THOSE WHO MET IN COSTA RICA DID NOT
REPRESENT REAL INTEREST OF THEIR PEOPLES, ESPECIALLY LATIN AMERICAN
PEOPLES. IF THEY HAD, THEY WOULD NOT HAVE ADOPTED RESOLUTION THEY DID.

WHAT WAS BEING DISCUSSED THERE?  THEY WERE PLAYING WITH DESTINY OF OUR
FATHERLAND, WITH AGGRESSIONS AGAINST US UPHOLDING CRIMINAL ARM OF YANKEE
IMPERIALISM.  THEY WERE SHARPENING KNIFE WHICH YANKEE IMPERIALISM WANTS TO
DRIVE INTO OUR BACK.  WHY DID THEY WANT TO CONDEMN CUBA?  WHAT HAS CUBA
DONE TO BE CONDEMNED?  WHAT HAS CUBAN PEOPLE DONE TO MERIT DECLARATION OF
COSTA RICA?  OUR PEOPLE HAVE DONE NOTHING BUT BREAK THE CHAINS, WITHOUT
HURTING ANY OTHER PEOPLE.  WE HAVE ONLY WANTED TO BE FREE AND LIVE BY OUR
WORK.  ALL WE WANT IS WHAT IS OUR OWN."

BONSAL
FROM:  HABANA

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1098, SEPTEMBER 2

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NO. 3

FRIDEL CASTRO SPEECH (CONTINUED).

"CUBANS ONLY WANT TO BE LEFT TO DIRECT THEIR OWN DESTINIES.  THEIR FLAG IS
THEIR OWN (CUBAN)), THEIR LAWS BELONG TO THEM, AS DO THEIR DESTINIES.  NO
OLIGARCHY OR POWERFUL GOVERNMENT HAS RIGHT TO INTERFERE.  WE ARE A
SOVEREIGN COUNTRY.  WE WILL SACRIFICE MUCH TO PROTECT THAT SOVEREIGNTY.

CUBAN PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO BE FREE OF GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS DOMINATED BY
FOREIGN INTERESTS, OF EXPLOITING IMPERIALISTS. WHEN REVOLUTION TOOK REINS
OF GOVERNMENT CUBA WAS A COUNTRY OF PAIN AND TEARS WHERE WORKERS, PEASANTS,
HUMBLE WERE INHUMANLY EXPLOITED AND ABUSED. THERE WAS RAMPANT CORRUPTION
AND CUBAN NATURAL RESOURCES WERE BEING LOOTED BY FOREIGN MONOPOLIES.

THERE WAS TERRIBLE POVERTY, FEW SCHOOLS AND LITTLE OPPORTUNITY FOR COLORED
PEOPLE OF CUBA.  VICE AND GAMBLING WERE ENTHRONED.

PEOPLE HAD NO MEANS OF LIBERATING THEMSELVES.  PEOPLE HAD TO SUFFER ALL
THIS - HIGH RENTS, HIGH ELECTRICITY AND TELEPHONE RATES, ECONOMIC
EXPLOITATION FROM ABROAD.  THERE WERE NO ECONOMIC PLANS, NO AGRARIAN
REFORM PROGRAMS, NO PLANS TO BUILD UP NEW INDUSTRIES, NO EFFORTS TO SOLVE
CHRONIC PROBLEM OF UNEMPLOYMENT.  OUR POPULATION WAS GROWING AT A RATE FAR
IN ADVANCE OF ECONOMIC GROWTH.

THERE WERE NOT EVEN PARKS OR PUBLIC BEACHES FOR PEOPLE.  COLORED CUBANS
WERE NOT ALLOWED TO USE WHAT FEW PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FACILITIES THERE
WERE."

FROM:  HABANA

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1099, SEPTEMBER 2

PRIORITY

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NO. 4

CASTRO SPEECH CONTINUED:

"FOR YEARS CUBA HAD BEEN STRUGGLING FOR INDEPENDENCE BUT WAS IMPEDED BY A
FORCE WHICH WAS U.S. IMPERIALISM, THE FORCE WHICH FRUSTRATED OUR
INDEPENDENCE, WHICH PREVENTED CALIZTO GARCIA FROM ENTERING SANTIAGO, WHICH
PREVENTED REVOLUTIONARY REFORMS AT START OF REPUBLIC, WHICH SEIZED BEST
MINERAL AND AGRICULTURAL LANDS, WHICH RESERVED RIGHT TO INTERVENE IN OUR
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS, WHICH ALWAYS ASSOCIATED ITSELF WITH ALL THAT WAS
REACTIONARY AND ABUSIVE.  NOW IT IS FORCE WHICH TRIES TO PREVENT US FROM
FIXING OUR FATHERLAND.  IT PERPETRATED BATISTA, TRAINED HIS SOLDIERS AND
SUPPLIED HIM WITH ARMS, PLANES AND BOMBS.

IT HAS BEEN PRINCIPAL CAUSE OF OUR ILLS.  IT IS FORCE WHICH WANTS OLD ORDER
TO RETURN TO CUBA.

CUBANS MUST SEE CLEARLY THAT IMPERIALISM WANTS TO PREVENT US FROM
FULFILLING OUR DESTINY OF INDEPENDENCE AND PROGRESS.  UP UNTIL PRESENT
PEOPLE NOT ALLOWED TO SEE THESE TRUTHS.  PEOPLE NOT ALLOWED TO KNOW WHAT
AMERICAN AMBASSADOR SAID TO GOVERNORS.  PEOPLE WERE NOT CALLED TOGETHER TO
BE INFORMED AND ORIENTED ON ISSUES OF DAY.  COULD CUBANS KEEP ON SUPPORTING
THAT SYSTEM?  ALL THAT CUBANS COULD DO WAS TO BREAK WITH PAST FREE
THEMSELVES.

IN CAMPAIGN AGAINST REVOLUTION THEY STARTED OFF WITH PRESS CAMPAIGN TO
DISCREDIT IT.  WHEN THIS FAILED, THERE CAME MORE NEARLY DIRECT AGGRESSION:
BOMBINGS, FIRING OF CANE FIELDS, TAKING OIL AWAY, CUTTING SUGAR QUOTA.
THAT WAS AGGRESSIVE ACTION WHICH VIOLATED INTERNATIONAL LAW ECONOMIC
AGGRESSION TO ACHIEVE A POLITICAL RESULT.  SMALL NATION WAS VICTIM OF
AGGRESSION.  LOGIC DICTATED THAT AT A MFM CUBA, A SMALL COUNTRY, NOT BE
CONDEMNED, BUT POWERFUL U.S. WITH AGGRESSIVE DESIGNS.  ABSURD FOR IT TO BE
REVERSE.  THAT IS WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DISCUSS TODAY IN THIS "NATIONAL
GENERALLY ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE."

WHAT DOES ASSEMBLY MEAN?  IT MEANS PEOPLE ARE SOVEREIGN AND AND ALL POWERS
ARE DERIVED FROM IT.  CUBA IS SOVEREIGN.  NO ONE CAN DISPUTE THAT HERE
CUBAN PEOPLE ARE REPRESENTED.  NEVER HAS SUCH A GATHERING BEEN ASSEMBLED
IN ANNUALS HISTORY OF CUBA AND AMERICA.  WE CUBANS CAN SPEAK TO AMERICAN
AND WORLD BECAUSE IT IS ALL PEOPLE WHO ARE SPEAKING.

THOSE WHO WANT TO SEE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRACY LET THEM COME HERE AND SEE THIS.
WE CAN SPEAK TO AMERICA AND WORLD BECAUSE WE SPEAK IN NAMES OF WHOLE
NATION.  LET LEADERS OF OTHERS COUNTRIES LIKE THOSE WHO MET AT SAN JOSE IF
THEY REPRESENT THEIR PEOPLE CALL PEOPLE TOGETHER AS WE HAVE.  IF THEY WANT
US TO ACCEPT SAN JOSE AGREEMENTS, LET THEM SUBMIT THEM TO APPROVAL OF THEIR
RESPECTIVE PEOPLES."

(CASTRO HAS BEEN SPEAKING FOR ONE HOUR) PRESS ESTIMATES CROWD AT
300-400,000.

BONSAL

FROM:  HABANA

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1099, SEPTEMBER 2

PRIORITY

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NO. 5

(FIDEL CASTRO SPEECH CONTINUED)

(CROWD CHANTS FIDEL CASTRO, A LOS AMERICANAS DE LE DURO FOR 10 MINUTES.
CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIQUEZ PICKED UP SEVERAL TIMES ON TELEVISION SCREEN).

"A FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE IS THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF A COUNTRY CANNOT
COMMIT HIS COUNTRY TO AN ACT WITHOUT SUPPORT OF PEOPLE OF THAT COUNTRY.
HE DOES NOT REPRESENT HIMSELF, BUT RATHER WISHES OF PEOPLE.  AN ACT TAKEN
WITHOUT SUPPORT OF PEOPLE IS AN INVALID ACT.  ACT OF SAN JOSE WAS ONE TAKEN
BY FOREIGN MINISTERS ONLY AND PEOPLE OF CUBA CANNOT RECOGNIZE IT.  WE ASK
GOVTS OF LA TO CONVOKE ASSEMBLIES OF PEOPLE AND SUBMIT DECLARATION OF SAN
JOSE TO THEM.  SEE IF THEY APPROVE, AND LET US NOT HAVE THEM SAY THEY
CANNOT.  WE ARE SPEAKING OF DEMOCRACY.  IF GOVT IS OF PEOPLE AND
DEMOCRATIC, PEOPLE CAN BE CONSULTED, AS WE ARE DOING HERE.  WHY DOESN'T
PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA CALL MEETING OF PEOPLE?  (CROWD HERE HISSES AND
JEERS).  WE INVITE HIM TO CALL AN ASSEMBLY IN CARACAS AND SUBMIT
DECLARATION TO VENEZUELAN PEOPLE.  WE INVITE ARGENTINE PRESIDENT TO DO SO.
WE INVITE GOVT OF URUQUAY TO CONVOKE MEETING OF PEOPLE IN MONTEVIDEO.  WE
INVITE GOVT OF CHILE TO HOLD ASSEMBLY IN SANTIAGO.  WE ASK ALL OTHER GOVTS
OF LA THAT CALL THEMSELVES DEMOCRATIC TO DO SAME.  WE WILL NOT EVER TALK OF
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, NIACARAQUA OR PARAQUAY.  THOSE GOVTS THAT DO NOT HOLD
SUCH MEETINGS TO CONSULT THEIR PEOPLE CAN NO LONGER CALL THEMSELVES
DEMOCRATIC.  WHAT IS MORE AN EXAMPLE OF PURE DEMOCRACY THAN MEETINGS SUCH
AS THIS ONE.  IF THEY CANNOT CALL SUCH MEETINGS THEY ARE NOT DEMOCRACIES.

WHEN OUR PEOPLE CAN COME ALL WAY FROM ORIENTE AND STAND HOURS AND HOURS IT
SHOWS THAT THIS IS SPONTANEOUS ASSEMBLY.  SHOWS OUR PEOPLE ARE DISPOSED TO
DEFEND THEIR REVOLUTION, YOU WHO HAVE MADE THIS SACRIFICE ARE SENDING
MESSAGE TO ALL LA, DEFENDING A NOBLE CAUSE.  THE PEOPLE OF CUBA MARCH
FORWARD UNITED.

WE KNOW WE SPEAK IN NAME OF PEOPLE.  THAT IS WHY WE RESPECTFULLY ASK OTHER
GOVTS TO CONVOKE ASSEMBLIES OF THEIR PEOPLE AND SUBMIT DECLARATION OF SAN
JOSE TO THEM.  IF THEY DO NOT AND IF PEOPLE DO NOT APPROVE, THEIR
DECLARATION OF SAN JOSE HAS NO VALIDITY FOR US.  LET LA GOVTS NOT TAKE
OFFENSE BECAUSE WE ASK THIS.  IT IS A REASONABLE REQUEST.  WE ASK THEM IN A
RESPECTFUL WAY.

YANKEE IMPERIALISM RESPONSIBLE FOR DECLARATION.  TOOK OUR SUGAR QUOTA AND
BOUGHT OTHER LA GOVTS WITH IT.  TRYING TO DIVIDE LA FAMILY.  OFFERED MONEY
AND CREDITS TO OTHER GOVTS.  THIS IS AN IMMORAL POLICY. WHAT SELF
RESPECTING COUNTRY COULD DO SUCH A THING.

WHAT DO PEOPLE OF VENEZUELA WANT?  THAT IMPERIALIST GIVE BACK OIL AND IRON
AND NATURAL RESOURCES WHICH ARE THEIR OWN.  THEY DO NOT ASK FOR YANKEE
DOLLARS, BUT ONLY FOR WHAT IS RIGHTFULLY THEIRS.  THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE
DONE.  OIL AND NATURAL RESOURCES ARE NOW OURS AND WE HAVE TOLD MONOPOLISTS

BONSAL

FROM:  HABANA

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1102, September 2

General assembly of Cuban People No. 6 Fidel Castro speech continued:

Those governments don't consult their peoples.  We say to imperialism that
they may buy oligarchies but never peoples of LA worth their gold.  U.S.
would never have gotten resolution if they had not gone with club and
money.  Oligarchies do not want agrarian and social reform.  They are
afraid of Cuban revolution as bad example people of those countries want
what people of Cuba have achieved.  People of LA do not accept lies and
calming of US press services against Cuban revolution.

We went to San Jose and presented our case in our reason and moral right.
But foreign ministers disregarded this, i.e., most did.  Some did not, like
Areago of Venezuela who refused to do so.  Also Porras of Peru who convoked
the meeting.  He was so repulsed by farce that he refused to sign.  And
even though Mexican foreign minister signed, he disowned it after getting
back to Mexico.  Our moral force was such that some refused to sign and
others explained their vote.

This, of course, does not change contents of resolution which is against
Cuba.  Strange things happened at San Jose.  Argentina present draft
resolution in English, think of it, in English.  San Jose was only a Pyrhic
victory for imperialism.  Pretense of democracy has been given the lie.
From now on democracy is what is taking place here.  He who cannot bring
together people in assembly like this should stop talking of democracy.

Now people of Cuba in this assembly must decide on resolution of San Jose
and formulate its own. We did not sign document in Costa Rica. Now we will
consult people on resolution approved by other foreign ministers.

Castro reads first paragraph of MFM resolution, then asks if island is
invaded by imperialist forces, do people accept or not assistance of Soviet
Union?  Crowd yells "yes" and begins chanting "Cuba si, Yankees no",
"Fidel, Fidel, que tiene Fidel que los Americanos no pueden con el".

Castro announces first reply to MFM is that Cuban people accept offer of
aid of Soviet Union in event of invasion.

Now let us ask foreign ministers a question.  What do governments of LA
count with no aid Cuba if it is invaded by US imperialist forces?  In first
place they do not have military assistance to offer and if they did, they
would not offer it.

Therefore correct, courageous answer is one which people have just given.

Castro reads second paragraph of resolution of Costa Rica and asks

Do people think that Soviet Union or China are to blame for resolution we
have made here?  Only one responsible is Yankee imperialism.  Therefore
Cuban people reject this paragraph.  As example we have treaty signed March
7, 1952.  Aureliano Sanchez Arango was Foreign Minister.  This treaty
called bilateral military assistance agreement.  Interesting point in
paragraph requiring prior permission of US before equipment supplied under
treaty can be used for purposes other than specified in agreement.  He
reads paragraph.

BONSAL

FROM:  Habana

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1105, September 2

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NUMBER 7.

FIDEL CASTRO SPEECH CONTINUED.

Treaty says that tanks and planes can be used against Cuban people when
United States authorizes it.  This treaty still valid.  We ask people if we
should abrogate this treaty or maintain it.  (crowd screams no).  You have
answered, and treaty is not valid from this moment on.  Tomorrow ministry
of foreign relations will communicate same to Yankee Government.  (Castro
tears up treaty)

(Shouts of caimenara from crowd)

We still have problem of Caimare before us.  We must put all problems before
people, but we ask people to postpone treating with this particular problem
until more opportune time.

We have nationalized many North American firms, but we have some in
reserve.  If they continue economic aggression against us, we will continue
nationalizing their enterprises. And if we continue to suffer aggression we
will call assembly of people and demand withdrawal of United States forces
from Caimanera.

All world knows what a risk it is for a small country such as ours to have
base of a large power on its soil, it would also be a danger to have such a
base in case of atomic warfare.  There is danger too the United States is
planning an auto aggression on base with help of war criminals. Everyone
knows we would not be foolish enough to attack base, but they might commit
auto-aggression in order to provide pretext for intervention.  We will
never attack base, but will proceed along democratic lines to annul base
treaty.

Our people are united and have faith in government and will continue to
follow leadership of government in these delicate matters.

And there is paragraph in declaration of San Jose asking that we rely on
guarantees of OAS for our defense.  Have they defended us from air
invasion, economic aggressions, from war criminals.  Have they made any
move to defend us?  What then do such guarantees mean.

And they ask that each member submit to discipline of OAS, we say that
first meetings of people be held to see if declaration meets with approval
of people.  Then we can talk of discipline.  We cannot submit to discipline
of organization that does not represent people.

There are still some problems which we must submit to people.  Do people
want us to trade freely with all nations?  (people answer yes).  Do you
approve of establishing diplomatic relations with Soviet Union?  (people
answer yes).  And do you want to establish relations with other socialist
countries?  (People answer yes).  People have expressed their will.

And now a very important problem.  United States saying Red China
interfering in L.A.  To contrary, L.A. Governments have diplomatic
relations with puppet government on Formosa.  We ask people if they desire
to establish diplomatic relations with the Chinese peoples republic?
(people answer in affirmative).  Your answer is yes.  Therefore we announce
cessation of relations with puppet government of Chiang Kai Shek and
establishment of relations with peoples China.  And we will accept help of
Chinese if they want to offer it if we become victims of armed aggression.

This means we are a sovereign people, freely choosing our own way.  We are
not puppets of anyone.

Yankee Embassy should see one thing in todays assembly that Cuba is the
free territory of America. We have here a real revolution in America. Our
people have won respect of peoples of world. A small nation struggling
against yankee domination. Intruder here is not People's Republic of China,
- no. Intruder is yankee imperialism that has invaded every phase our
national life. Our nations heroes have struggled against yankee imperialism
since days of Jose Marti. Thanks to them we were conditioned to struggle.

(Castro has now been speaking almost two and one half hours).

BONSAL

FROM:  Habana

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1106, September 2

PRIORITY

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NUMBER 8.

FIDEL CASTRO SPEECH CONTINUED:

Nothing is stronger than a people who are alive and vigorous morally and
physically. Persons may pass but people remain. "patria o muerte" means
that anyone of us is prepared to die in order the people and fatherland may
continue. "veneeremos": means that while many of us fall in the struggle,
the cause will continue. We have no doubt that the fatherland will prevail,
Cuba is not alone because it is struggling for welfare of humanity.

Our small country has interests which pass beyond its frontiers.  We are
beacon which will never be dimmed, instead it will each day extend further
over our sister countries.  Our people are conscious of this and that is
why they respond way they have done today.  Let me express on behalf
government leaders our joy, pride and satisfaction over this support.  We
pledge to keep working for these people.

We want to submit for consideration of people a declaration in reply to one
approved at San Jose. This is "declaration of Habana". Once it is approved
here, we will submit it to all revolutionary groups and men in America to
support it. It has prestige and support of a whole people.

(Begins reading resolution)

In Cuba, free territory of America the people in use of rights stemming
from exercise of its sovereignty as reflected in direct, popular suffrage,
meeting in general assembly declare:

1.  Condemns declaration of San Jose, dictated by Yankee imperialism,
considering it threatening to dignity and sovereignty of nations of
continent.

2.  Condemns open and criminal intervention which US has exercised over LA
for over 199 years.  To US interventions in Haiti, Nicaragua, Dominican
Republic, Cuba and Mexico.  Also mentions seizure by US of Texas, Panama
and Puerto Rico.

3.  Continual acceptance by governments of LA and this intervention betrays
interests of their countries, and moves that this assembly repudiate them.

4.  Rejects attempts to maintain Monroe Doctrine which has been used to
extend economic and political domination of yankee imperialism.

5.  In extending hand of friendship to US people - remembering lynched
negroes, presented intellectual and exploited workers we reaffirm intent to
march with all of world and not just part of it.

6.  Spontaneous offer of Soviet aid can never be considered intervention
but an act of solidarity, and this aid offered to Cuba in face of threats
from Yankee Pentagon honors the Soviet Union as much as it dishonors us for
its criminal and cowardly aggression against Cuba.  Therefore assembly
accepts and appreciates offer of Soviet rockets and support if its
territory is invaded by forces of US.

BONSAL

FROM:  Habana

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1107, September 2

PRIORITY

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF CUBAN PEOPLE NO. 9.

Declaration Habana continued:

7.  Assembly denies that there has been attempt to part USSR or Red China
to use Cuba to threaten Latin America or to use Cuban revolution as
instrument.  From first shot of revolution we have acted for independence
of our country, accepting no domination from outside forces.  We have never
had cause to accuse USSR or Red China of attempting meddle in our internal
affairs.  To contrary, we understood that policy of North American against
USSR and Red China denied it isolating them, and action at preventing
nation of 600 million from being represented in UN, puts peace of world in
danger.  We reaffirm our friendship for USSR, Red China and other socialist
nations of world and from this moment on will maintain relations with
peoples Republic of China rather than regime on Formosa which only kept in
power by guns of yankee 7th Fleet.

8.  We declare that democracy is not compatible with oligarchies or Ku Klux
Klan or executions such as those of Rosenbergs.  We declare that democracy
not resident only in votes, which have too often been manipulated by
politicians and latifundistas.  This is only a farce, not democracy.

9.  We condemn latifundism, inadequate wages, racial discrimination,
military oligarchies.  We condemn governments which ignore wishes of their
people and accept orders of Washington.  We condemn press services who act
on orders of large economic interests.  We condemn, in essence, then the
exploitation of man by man.

We proclaim before all America:

Rights of compesino to land

Rights of workers to fruits of his labor

Rights of children to education

Rights to hospitalization

Right to work

Right to equality among races

Right to equality of women

Rights of intellectuals to carry on their work as they see fit

Right of states to nationalize monopolies

Right to sovereignty

Right to convert military posts into schools

Right to arm people so that they can defend their rights and destinies.

(Castro has now been speaking 3 hours).

Right of oppressed countries to struggle for independence.

19.  We reiterate our faith that Latin America will march forward to free
itself of yankee imperialism in spite of meetings of domesticated Foreign
Ministers.  The voice of the people will be heard.  To this voice we reply,
"We are here!  Cuba will not fail you!"

We are here before all world to make promise - "Patria o muerte!"

Assembly of Cuban people resolves that this declaration be known as
"Declaration of Habana".  We submit it to consideration of people.  Those
who approve raise their hands (crowd taken up chant Cuba si, yankee no,
waves arms and shouts approval).

BONSAL

FROM:  Habana

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1109, September 2

PRIORITY

General Assembly of Cuban People No. 10

Fidel Castro speech concluded.

Fidel Castro brings Juan Almeida to podium for a bow, then Raul Roa, Pepe
Ramirez (Campesino association head), Diaz Astarain, Pardo Llada.

Castro asks:  "And with declaration of San Jose what do we do?"  He
replies:  "We tear it up" and proceed to do so.

Castro announces that declaration of Habana will be communicated to all
peoples of LA.

General Assembly of Cuban people ends 8:15 p.m. with playing of "July 26"
movement anthem.

BONSAL

FROM:  Habana

TO:  Secretary of State

NO:   1109, September 2

PRIORITY

General Assembly of Cuban People No. 10

Fidel Castro speech concluded.

Fidel Castro brings Juan Almeida to podium for a bow, then Raul Roa, Pepe
Ramirez (Campesino association head), Diaz Astarain, Pardo Llada.

Castro asks:  "And with declaration of San Jose what do we do?"  He
replies:  "We tear it up" and proceed to do so.

Castro announces that declaration of Habana will be communicated to all
peoples of LA.

General Assembly of Cuban people ends 8:15 p.m. with playing of "July 26"
movement anthem.

BONSAL
-END-


 |

