
CASTRO WARNS CUBANS AGAINST U.S. PLOTS

Havana, PRENSA LATINA, in Spanish to Latin America, Mar. 22, 1961, 2015
GMT--E

(Excerpts)  Havana--Prime Minister Fidel Castro today warned that the
Revolutionary Government and the people of Cuba are prepared "to die
defending our Cuban flag," in a reference to aggression being planned
against Cuba in the United States and other countries.  Delivering a eulogy
at the tomb of Cuba's permanent delegate to the United Nations, Manuel
Bisbe, Castro referred to "those who sit at imperialism's table and form a
puppet government" abroad, and said:  "They are concocting a more complex
plan of aggression against Cuba."

"We do not believe they will continue with the tactic of sending a group of
mercenaries to invade," he said, warning that whatever the enemy's plan may
be, even simultaneous aggression, "we have what we need to defend our
country, which has hundreds of thousands of weapons and millions of men and
women for the purpose."

Speaking for Bisbe, who died on Monday of a heart attack in the U.N.
building, Prime Minister Castro said that the government and the people
have lost a great comrade.  He stressed the revolutionary battle waged by
Bisbe both in the United Nations and as a university professor, saying also
that Bisbe was free of corruption at a time when political immorality and
social corruption held sway in Cuba.

Castro held up as an example to intellectuals and professional men Bisbe's
revolutionary conduct and contrasted his loyalty to the country with the
disloyalty displayed by the intellectuals and professional men who deserted
Cuba, drawn by imperialist gold.

The funeral procession left from Havana University headed by President
Osvaldo Dorticos, the entire cabinet, the diplomatic corps accredited in
Cuba, high ranking civil and military authorities, and relatives of the
dead diplomat.  The ceremonies ended in Colon cemetery.
-END-


 |

