
FIDEL CASTRO NAMES NEWLY INAUGURATED TOWN

Havana Domestic Radio and Television Services in Spanish 1715 GMT 31 May 70
F

[Remarks by Cuban Premier Fidel Castro following the conclusion of his
speech inaugurating the town of Vado del Yeso--live]

[Text] Well, what you say is true, I forgot the matter of the naming of the
town of Dos y Medio. In other words [it was going to] stay halfway up the
road and [Castro chuckles] some comrades proposed a name that would recall
the comrades who died in one of the battles in Bolivia. [indistinct remarks
from the crowd] No, it is of a locality. It was precisely where (Vio) died
[presumably "Joaquin" or Maj Juan Vitalio Acuna Nunez of the Cuban
Communist Party Central Committee] and it is Vado del Yeso, if you local
residents agree.

We will have trouble getting used to the name, but we are certain it will
become a pretty name, a representative name, a fitting reminder of the
comrade who fell. And even something else, if we recall the floods in these
parts, we can almost say that there was also a ford [un vado] over here. In
other words, [representative] both of the locality and of nature. But above
all, fundamentally, it is the name. Other towns have been named Nancahuazu
[after a Bolivian town that figured in Che Guevara's guerrilla operations]
or Machurucuto, [after the Venezuelan locality that figured in the abortive
Cuban landing of guerrillas in May 1967]. I think that these are also
historic revolutionary names, Latin American names, symbols of the spirit
of our people and of the internationalism of our people. They are beautiful
and splendid names with which to baptize our towns.

Therefore, if you agree, [crowd approval] Vado del Yeso.

[Crowd approval, applause, cheering] Then it will be Vado del Yeso. Thank
you very much. [applause]
-END-


 |

