
Copper Mine Visit

Moscow TASS International Service in English 1008 GMT 15 Nov 71 L

[Text] Santiago November 15 TASS--The TASS special correspondent
reports--The Cuban Government delegation, headed by the first secretary of
the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba, Prime Minister Fidel
Castro now touring Chile, visited on Sunday the world's biggest open strip
copper mine in Chuquicamata. This mine used to belong to the American
Anaconda Company now Chilean working people have taken it into their hands.

The miners warmly met the envoys of the island of freedom. Everywhere there
were flags of both countries, bright posters and streamers with words of
the inviolable Cuban- Chilean friendship.

Accompanied by Chile's Minister of the Mining Industry Orlando Canturias
and the managers of the enterprise, the Cuban guests inspected the mine,
spoke with the workers and asked about their living and working conditions.
Fidel Castro addressed a big meeting held in the centre of the settlement.
He noted the importance of raising the labour productivity of miners
because the success of the development of Chile's economy and of improving
the population's living standards depended on this. You play the decisive
role in raising the welfare of your country's popular masses, Fidel Castro
said.

The head of the Cuban delegation conveyed ardent greetings from Cuban
workers to the participants in the meeting and expressed the "full
solidarity of the people of Cuba" with the Chilean people who are effecting
an important process of profround socio-economic transformation in the
country.

The participants in the meeting elected Fidel Castro an honorary citizen of
Calama District, of which Chuquicamata is a part.
-END-


 |

