
Castro Comments

Lima PRENSA LATINA in Spanish to PRENSA LATINA Havana 2110 GMT 4 Dec 74
C--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

[Text] Jorge Chavez Airport, Peru, 4 Dec--Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro
said that the relations between Peru and Cuba were not discussed during his
meeting with President Juan Velasco Alvarado.

Maj Fidel Castro held a press conference after meeting for 3 hours and 10
minutes with the Peruvian chief executive and then returned to meet with
reporters at 1800.

Asked whether he discussed with Velasco Alvarado the possibility of
resuming relations between Peru and Cuba, the Cuban premier said: "We did
not specifically discuss the matter. Our attitude is one of impartiality.
Formal matters are not so important as long as human relations exist. They
are more important than official relations or protocol.

Regarding the OAS, he said: "We have freed ourselves of that organization,
and we will not return to it. I think there will be no OAS in the future.
There will be a unity of the Latin American peoples."

Concerning the Peruvian process, he reiterated his previous remarks that in
Peru a revolutionary process exists and stated: "If I were a Peruvian, a
Peruvian revolutionary, I would not wait, I would attempt to encourage that
process and not fight it because I believe that fighting it today would
only help imperialism."

He said, however, that he has great respect for the Board Front and the
Uruguayan Tupamaros and pointed out that imperialism resorted to all means
to prevent the victory of the Board Front in the recent elections.

He also added that imperialism will also resort to any means to block the
continuation of the Chilean revolutionary process and that he has nothing
but high praise for the Chilean people, saying that he was positive they
will achieve progress.
-END-


 |

