
FIDEL CASTRO SUPPORTS VIETNAMESE STRUGGLE

Hanoi VNA International Service in English 1511 GMT 30 Aug 71 B

[Text] Hanoi VNA August 30--"We always take the Vietnamese people as a
model, because they have given the world big mirror, all the nations a
great experience, and taught the imperialists a big lesson," declared Fidel
Castro, first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of
Cuba and premier of the Cuban Revolutionary Government at a meeting on
August 22 in Havana.

The meeting was held at Havana University by the delegation of youth and
students of 30 countries then on their way to Chile to participate in the
"get-together of the youth of Latin America and North America to condemn
imperialism and unite with Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia."

Premier Fidel Castro went on:

"We hold that in Vietnam the fighting spirit and heroism of the nations
have been manifested to the highest level. When faced with the necessity to
cope with the U.S. imperialists who have used all the most up-to-date means
and every weapon of destruction to attack them, the Vietnamese people have
not hesitated to cope with the U.S. imperialists and in reality they are
defeating them.

In our opinion, the imperialists are being defeated by the Vietnamese
people and the other peoples of Indochina. To Vietnam, international
solidarity has a tremendous value, morally and materially. In return,
Vietnam has contributed to the world her solidarity under an extremely
precious form.

"That is the lesson they have taught the imperialists and the experience
they have brought to the nations, and that is the belief that imperialism
is not invincible, belief which they have brought to their own fighters and
the whole world. We hold that the Vietnamese people and the other
Indochinese peoples have made a wonderful contribution to the world."
-END-


 |

