
Castro Statement

Havana Domestic Service in Spanish 2202 GMT 8 May 72 F

[Text] "The Algerian people have shown us that they are just as we had
expected them to be," stated Cuban Prime Minister Maj Fidel Castro in a
brief statement to the press moments after his arrival at the People's
Palace in Algiers. He said: "I was wonderfully surprised by this country."
The Cuban prime minister stated that he was feeling well and very happy,
that we were grateful for the warm welcome of the people, who are "full of
enthusiasm and vigor."

He added: "We are highly impressed in all aspects." At this point,
President Boumediene said: "All this is not enough in the case of a great
friend of Algeria." Fidel responded; "The honors are always greater than
what anyone deserves."

The Cuban leader addressed the persons present and said: "Did you see how
beautiful was the reception? Did you notice the beautiful music?" Then,
Fidel asked: "Did we pass by the university?" President Boumediene
responded: "Right by it. The post office was on the left side." Fidel
asked: "Does the university have many students?" Boumediene answered: "That
is part of the university. In Algeria, we have three universities. They are
in Oran, Algiers and Constantine."

Then Fidel said: "There is almost no room for new construction in the
city." Boumediene explained that construction in Algeirs is difficult
because the terrain is hilly, just like a ladder. In referring to the port
installations, Fidel stated that the port of Algiers appeared to be very
modern. After this chat, Fidel and Boumediene tackled other subjects.
-END-


 |

