
CASTRO ENTOURAGE BEGINS OFFICIAL 10-DAY VISIT

Dimitrov Order Presentation

Sofia Domestic Service in Bulgarian 1830 GMT 17 May 72 A

[Text] Following its arrival, the Cuban party-government delegation visited
the State Council. The delegation was cordially welcomed by Comrade Todor
Zhivkov, Stanko Todorov, Boris Velchev, Konstantin Tellalov and other party
and state leaders.

Comrade Todor Zhivkov presented the Georgi Dimitrov Order to Fidel Castro
for his services to the struggle of the Cuban people against imperialism as
well as for the building of socialism in Cuba and for strengthening
friendship and cooperation between Bulgaria and Cuba.

Orders were presented to the other members of the Cuban delegation as well.

Comrade Todor Zhivkov congratulated those awarded for their high
distinctions. In reply, Fidel Castro expressed his extreme gratitude for
this and emphasized that today was a happy day for the guests who arrived
in the fatherland and among the people of Georgi Dimitrov. We also
expressed gratitude for the warm welcome accorded him and those
accompanying him by the Bulgarian leaders and people.

Tonight Fidel Castro laid a wreath at the mausoleum of the immortal leader
and teacher of the Bulgarian people and eminent worker of the international
communist workers movement, Georgi Dimitrov.

The list of the official persons included in the Cuban party-government
delegation to Bulgaria is as follows: Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, member of
the Cuban Communist Party [PCC] Central Committee Secretariat and minister
of the revolutionary government; Maj Flavio Bravo Pardo, member of the PCC
Central Committee and [official] responsible for consumption and servicing
sector; Jose Naranjo Morales, member of the PCC Central Committee and
minister of food industry, Maj Arnaldo Ochoa Sanchez, member of the PCC
Central Committee and commander of the army corps commander in Pinar del
Rio, Maj Orlando Rodriguez Puerta, member of the PCC Central Committee and
infantry division commander of the army of Havana, Maj Julio Comacho
Aguillera, member of the PCC Central Committee and first secretary of the
PCC in the province of Pinar del Rio, Maj Ramon Pardo Guerra, member of the
PCC Central Committee and first deputy commander of the armored tank
division of the army of Havana; Felipe Torres, member of the PCC Central
Committee and Cuban ambassador of Bulgaria; First Captain Serafin Fernandez
Rodriguez, minister of internal trade; Capt Julian Rizo Alvarez, first
secretary of the PCC in the province of Matanzas; Maj Cedar Lara Rosello,
member of the PCC Central Committee and commander of the army corps in
Camaguey; first Captain Arturo Linse Gonzalez, first secretary of the PCC
on the island of Pinos; Jaime Crombet Hernandez, first secretary of the
National Committee the Union of Young Communists, and Mauro Garcia Triana,
director of the socialist countries department at the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
-END-


 |

