
Castro Reception for Zhivkov

Sofia BTA Domestic Service in Bulgarian 1950 GMT 25 May 72 A

[Text] Fidel Castro, first secretary of the Cuban Communist Party Central
Committee, chairman of the Revolutionary Government and head of the Cuban
party-government delegation to Bulgaria, gave a reception tonight in the
Sofia VIP Hotel in honor of First Secretary of the BCP Central Committee
and Chairman of the State Council Comrade Tudor Zhivkov.

The following attended the reception: Georgi Traykov, Stanko Todorov, Boris
Velchev, Boyan Bulgaranov, Ahivko Zhivkov, Prof Ivan Popov, Pencho
Kubadinski, Tsola Dragoycheva, (?Ivan Prumov), Ivan Abadzhiev, Kostadin
Gyaurov, Krustyu Trichkov, Peko Takov, Stoyan Karadzhov, [name indistinct],
Eng Penyu Kiratsov, Grisha Filipov, Konstantin Tellalov, George Bokov,
deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers Sava Dulbokov and Prof Mako
Dakaov, Secretary of the State Council Mincho Minchev, members of the State
Council and the Council of Ministers, members of the Bulgarian National
Agrarian Union Permanent Board, chiefs of department under the BCP Central
Committee, First Secretary of Sofia City BCP Committee Georgi Yordanov,
Chairman of the Sofia City People's Council Executive Committee Ivan Panev,
leaders of scientific and creative unions, public and cultural workers and
journalists.

The members of the Cuban party-government delegation, the Bulgarian
ambassador to Cuba and the Cuban ambassador to Bulgaria as well as (?chiefs
and members of embassy staff accredited to Bulgaria) were also present. An
orchestra played the Bulgarian and Cuban anthems.

The reception was held in particularly warm and friendly atmosphere.
-END-


 |

