
Castro Remarks

Budapest MTI Domestic Service in Hungarian 1945 GMT 31 May 72 L

[Excerpt] In his words of thanks the first secretary of the Cuban Communist
Party Central Committee and head of the Cuban Revolutionary Government said
that the Cuban people feel deep sympathy and respect for the Hungarian
people, for the party and government of the Hungarian People's Republic.
They know that immediately after Soviet Russia it was in Hungary that the
workers' power was established. We know your perseverance, resoluteness and
heroism, he continued, in the struggle you waged against reaction and
fascism. We know your struggle for the victory of socialism, the heroic
attitude with which your people and party fought for victory in the most
difficult situations.

We harbor very deep feelings for those workers and women workers who laid
down their lives for the cause. We remember the oppression but also the
victories. Socialism has won a final victory in Hungary. You have stood
great and hard tests. Our people understand and highly value the successes
achieved by your people. Our people, too, had to struggle in very difficult
circumstances to carry the cause of socialism to victory.

Fidel Castro finally stressed that they wished to continue working for the
deepening of friendship of the Cuban and Hungarian peoples, to struggle for
the victory of socialism and the unity of the international workers
movement, against imperialism.

The ceremony of presenting the decoration was attended by Janos Kadar,
MSZMP Central Committee first secretary Jeno Fock, prime minister, Lajos
Cseterki, secretary of the Presidential Council and members of the Cuban
delegation.
-END-


 |

