
Telegram To Zhivkov, Todorov

Sofia BTA Domestic Service in Bulgarian 0855 GMT 26 May 72 A

[Fidel Castro's telegram from on board a plane to Todor Zhivkov and Stanko
Todorov]

[Text] While leaving the borders of Georgi Dimitrov's great fatherland, on
behalf of the Cuban Party-Government delegation and myself I express to
you, the BCP Central Committee, the government and the struggling Bulgarian
people our genuine gratitude for the warm hospitality accorded to us in
your country.

We are glad and pleased with the results of our visit, which strengthened
Cuban- Bulgarian friendship. Our meetings and talks helped us to better
understand and become better acquainted with each other. We are deeply
moved by the feelings of sympathy and fighting solidarity of your people
expressed in Sofia and in all placed we visited--at the unforgettable
meeting with the former partisans of the Chavdar Detachment and with the
enthusiastic and militant representatives of your Dimitrov youth at its
12th congress.

With great pleasure and keen interest we familiarized ourselves with the
successes achieved by socialist Bulgaria in all areas. In the field we
witnesses the tremendous reforms carried out in Bulgarian agriculture and
the revolution carried out by the leadership of your party by implementing
the agrarian-industrial complexes. This is courageous initiative in the
peoples' striving the defeat backwardness and build new societies that are
securing the happiness of man.

We leave your country with the belief that new foundations have been built
for a sound and constant development of our relations of militant and
fraternal friendship that will contribute to the cause of socialism and to
the cohesion of the socialist countries and the world revolutionary
movement.

While expressing once more out gratitude for the warm and militant
friendship shown us in your country, we also wish great happiness and
prosperity to the diligent Bulgarian people, of whose future successes in
building a developed socialist society we are certain.
-END-


 |

