
Castro Post-Luncheon Speech

Bucharest AGERPRES International Service in English 2036 GMT 26 May 72 L

[Fidel Castro's speech at meeting in front of Central Committee
Building--AGERPRES headline]

[Text] Bucharest AGERPRES 26/5/72--Singling out that the Romanians and
Cubans have many things in common, Fidel Castro thanked for the friendly
words addressed by Nicolae Ceausescu. When share your view that this
contact between the representatives of our two countries and this meeting
with the Romanian people, the speaker said, will serve the strengthening of
the relations of friendship, will serve the strengthening of the
revolutionary solidarity and the fight against imperialism, against
colonialism and neocolonialism.

We are also sure that this visit will help us know the achievements of the
Romanian people, its revolutionary thinking and spirit.

We, the Cubans, have fought under the conditions referred to by Comrade
Ceausescu and have made our modest contribution to the cause of the
revolution. Yet important is not what we have achieved but especially that
we continue fighting untiringly and support the liberation struggle of the
peoples, so that all the people should have the possibility to build their
future in freedom.

In concluding, Fidel Castro addressed a salute to the heroic Vietnamese
people expressing his confidence in the latter's victory and support for
the proposals set forth by the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam.

The speeches of Nicolae Ceausescu and Fidel Castro Ruz aroused strong and
prolonged applause. There were cheers and slogans for the friendships of
Romanian Communist Party and the Communist Party of Cuba, of the Socialist
Republic of Romania and the Republic of Cuba.
-END-


 |

