
CASTRO THANKS PARTY, GOVERNMENT LEADERS FOR VISIT

Warsaw TRYBUNA LUDU in Polish 14 Jun 71 p 1 A

[F. Castro Message to Polish Leaders]

[Text] To Comrade Edward Gierek, first secretary of the PZPR Central
Committee, and to Comrade Piotr Jaroszewicz, chairman of the Council of
Ministers of the Polish people's Republic:

Dear comrades, ending my visit in heroic Poland and before leaving its
territory, i wish to convey to you, the PZPR Central Committee, the
Government of the Polish People's Republic and all the Polish people, in
the name of the Cuban delegation and in my own name, our most sincere
gratitude for the warm reception and fraternal hospitality we have
experienced during our visit to your country.

We have been greatly moved by the cordiality and affecting shown to use
everywhere--in Warsaw as well as in Silesia, Krakow and Gdansk, and by the
expressions of the internationalist sentiments of the Polish people and of
the fraternal friendship linking our countries.

Our visit has enabled us to directly study the heroic history of the Polish
people and their enormous sacrifices and gigantic achievements registered
in the past 27 years in the reconstruction of the cities destroyed during
the war, in the profound socioeconomic changes, and in the building of a
powerful industry, which is a firm base for increasing the material and
cultural prosperity of the people.

We highly value the magnificent bearing of your miners, soldiers, students
and the working masses and their determination to promote socialist
construction. We highly value your great optimism as to the future and the
unceasing concern of the party leadership and aktivs for maintaining close
ties between the party and society.

We believe that our visit, contacts and talks will promote further
development and consolidation of our relations at all levels in the
interest of our peoples and the peoples of the socialist community,.

We offer the Polish people our sincere wishes to many successes in the work
of the prosperity and development of socialist Poland.

[Signed], Fidel Castro Ruz, first secretary of PCC Central Committee and
premier of the Revolutionary Government of the Republic of Cuba.
-END-


 |

