
Topics of Discussion

Sofia Domestic Service in Bulgarian 1806 GMT 18 May 72 A

[Excerpt] Comrade Todor Zhivkov informed (?the Cuban delegation) in detail
about Bulgaria's successes in socialist construction and about the
persistent work and creative courage of the Bulgarian people in all aspects
of life. He emphasized the tremendous political and organizational work
which the party is carrying out to mobilize the working people's forces and
to fulfill the decisions of the historic 10th BCP Congress. Comrade Todor
Zhivkov also touched on certain basic problems of Bulgaria's
sociopolitical, economic and cultural development during the stage of
building a developed socialist society.

Comrade Fidel Castro emphasized the stable political situation in the
country and reviewed developments following the revolution's victory. He
spoke of the efforts which the Cuban people are making under the PCC to
solve the economic and social problems of the country in the process of
socialist construction. Comrade Fidel Castro emphasized the importance of
Cuba's cooperation with the fraternal socialist countries and particularly
with the Soviet Union.

Problems of past fruitful cooperation between Bulgaria and Cuba as well as
the favorable prospects for its expansion and development were also
discussed.

The talks were held in an atmosphere of particular cordiality, fraternal
friendship and complete mutual understanding.

Attendance at Concert

[Editorial report A] Sofia Domestic Service in Bulgarian at 1800 GMT 18 May
broadcasts live from the Sofia Opera House the opening of a concert in
honor of the visiting Cuban delegation led by Fidel Castro. The concert is
organized by the Committee for Art and Culture and the Sofia City BCP
Committee.

At 1801 the Cuban and Bulgarian anthems are played, and the announcer says
that Todor Zhivkov, Fidel Castro and Stanko Tordorov are in the main box.
The live relay concludes at this point.
-END-


