
CASTRO SENDS MESSAGE OF THANKS TO KADAR, FOCK

Budapest NEPSZABADSAG in Hungarian 7 Jun 72 p 3 A

["Message From the Cuban premier to Janos Kadar and Jeno Fock"]

[Text] Fidel Castro had sent the following message to Janos Kadar and Jeno
Fock from aboard his plane: Dear Comrades: On leaving your wonderful
country, I would like to express our delegation's gratitude for the
comradely, fraternal and warm welcome given us by party-government leaders
and the Hungarian people.

This visit was a valuable experience for us. It enabled us directly to
observe the process of socialist construction in Hungary and better to
acquaint ourselves with and better understand each other.

By building a country of significant industrial development and great
scientific and technical achievements on the destitution and ruins
bequeathed by capitalism and fascism, your people have done a great and
wonderful job.

We are taking agreeable impressions with us of the leaders of the Hungarian
party and their faithfulness to socialism and the firmness of the Hungarian
communists in coping with all difficulties.

We will not forget our meetings with workers, cooperative members and
students. The determination of the soldiers of the Hungarian People's Army
to defend socialism and their internationalist spirit remind us of the
finest traditions of communist combatants.

We are convinced that relations between our people, parties and governments
will strengthen from day to day on the path leading to communism, in the
international struggle against imperialism, and will benefit the world
revolutionary movement.

May your country score further successes in every sphere of socialist
construction. We send our revolutionary greeting to you. Be assured of our
fraternal and militant solidarity and friendship.
-END-


 |

