
CASTRO THANKS HONECKER, STOPH FOR HOSPITALITY

Send-Off Party Identified

East Berlin ADN International Service in German 0959 GMT 21 Jun 72 L

[Text] Berlin--Flanked by Erich Honecker and Willi Stoph, Fidel Castro bade
a cordial farewell to SED Central Committee Politburo members Herman Azen,
Friedrich Ebert, Gerhard Grueneberg, Kurt Hager, Werner Krolikowski, Werner
Lamberz, Guenter Mittag, Erich Mueckenberger, Alfred Neumann, Albert
Norden, Horst Sindermann, and Herbert Warnke; to Central Committee
Politburo candidate members Georg Ewald, Werner Jarowinsky, Guenther
Kleiber, Erich Mielke, and Margarete Mueller; and to member of the SED
Central Committee Secretariat Horst Dohlus.

Others who bade a cordial farewell to the Cuban guests were State Council
Deputy Chairmen Gerald Goetting, president of the GDR People's Chamber, and
Dr Manfred Gerlach; Deputy Premiers Wolfgang Rauchfuss, Dr Hans Reichelt,
Gerhard Schuerer, Rudolph Schulze, Dr Gerhard Weiss, Dr Herbert Wiez, and
Dr Kurt Wuensche; and Chairman of the German Democratic Peasant Party
(DBD), Ernest Goldenbaum; and members of the Central Committee, the State
Council, and the Council of Ministers, among them Foreign Minister Otto
Winzer.

Also present were heads of diplomatic and other missions accredited to the
GDR, military attaches, and members of the staff of the Cuban Embassy in
the GDR.

The sound of the 21-gun salute echoed over the runway when Fidel Castro
with Erich Honecker and Willi Stoph and the Cuban and GDR delegations to
the negotiations had left their cars, the national anthems of the two
countries were played, Fidel Castro, Erich Honecker, and Willi Stoph
reviewed the guard of honor of the National People's Army on parade for the
farewell ceremony.

High-ranking officials and members of the diplomatic corps bade a cordial
farewell to the first secretary of the Cuban Communist Party Central
Committee and premier of the Revolutionary Government of the Republic of
Cuba, Fidel Castro, before he went with Erich Honecker and Willi Stoph to
face the many thousands of waving and shouting people.

Erich Honecker said to Fidel Castro: "Sincere thanks for your visit to the
GDR. The talks during your stay have contributed to consolidating the
friendship of our two countries with the Soviet Union and with the whole
socialist community."

Fidel Castro and Erich Honecker embraced several times for an exchange of
fraternal kisses. "We shall expect you in Cuba," Fidel Castro exclaimed
when he boarded the plane taking the Cuban party-government delegation to
their visit to the CSSR.
-END-


 |

