
TOP OFFICIALS ATTEND RECEPTION FOR LCY DELEGATION

Havana Domestic Service in Spanish 1102 GMT 27 Jun 73 F

[Text] Yugoslav Ambassador Vojislav Djakovic held a reception last night
for the visiting delegation of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia
[LCY]. Maj Fidel Castro, first secretary of the party and prime minister of
the Revolutionary Government, and Maj Raul Castro, second secretary of the
party and first vice prime minister, attended. Also present at the
reception, which was held at Ambassador Djakovic's residence, were Sergio
del Valle, member of the PCC Central Committee Politburo; Raul Roa Garcia,
foreign minister; and Blas Roca, Antonio Perez Herrero and Isidoro
Malmierca all members of the party Secretariat; and other Central Committee
members.

During the day Maj Fidel Castro accompanied Stane Dolanc, LCY Executive
Bureau secretary, and his delegation on a visit to the Lenin Vocatinal
School. Secretariat members Carlos Rafael Rodriguez and Antonio Perez
Herrero, PCC Central Committee member and first secretary of the party in
Havana; Cuban Ambassador to Yugoslavia Fernando Flores Ibarra, and
Ambassador Vojislav Djakovic also accompanied the group.

The Yugoslav delegation was briefed at length on the characteristics and
goals of the school. Maj Fidel Castro and Stane Dolanc toured all the
classrooms and installations of the school. Later the delegation was
informed of the scientific-technical groups' work with the students, and
how work was combined with study as an expression of revolutionary
education.

Together with Fidel, the visitors observed how the 400-student basic
secondary and preuniversity school is being expanded.
-END-


 |

