
Talk With Castro

Belgrade TANJUG in English 0900 GMT 27 Jun 73 L

[Text] Havana, June 27 (TANJUG)--The leader of the Cuban Revolution, Fidel
Castro, has accepted an invitation from President Tito, and will be
visiting Yugoslavia shortly. This invitation has been delivered to him by
the secretary of the Executive Bureau of the League of Communists of
Yugoslavia, Stane Dolanc, who heads a delegation of the league on a week's
visit to that country. In presenting this invitation, Dolanc also conveyed
an oral message from President Tito. Fidel Castro has accepted the
invitation with pleasure.

The meeting between the Yugoslav delegation and the Cuban premier and first
secretary of the Cuban Communist Party, Fidel Castro, was in his well-known
stye--original, spontaneous, frank and cordial.

Yesterday's final talks between the two party delegations took place in the
residence of the Yugolsav delegation. Fidel Castro arrived at 4 p.m. First
he was introduced to the members of the delegation--Stane Dolanc, Angel
Cemerski and Dusan Dragosavac. Then he invited them for a drive to town.
Stane Dolanc got into a jeep driven by Fidel Castro, while the [other]
members of the two delegations got into another car. After a half-hour
drive, the cars came to a stop in the outskirts of Havana, where an
experimental secondary school for particularly talented pupils is being
built. The tour of the school, in which about 1,500 pupils from all over
the country will be studying this autumn and doing practical work in their
own factories and workshops, lasted more than an hour. After this tour they
resume their talk again in the jeep with Castro driving. With the meeting
and talk with Fidel Castro, the Yugoslav delegation's programme is
virtually exhausted. A joint statement is expected to be released today.
-END-


 |

