
REPORTAGE ON NYERERE VISIT, DEPARTURE, COMMUNIQUE

Official Talks Begin

Havana Domestic Service in Spanish 1134 GMT 20 Sep 74 F

[Text] Official talks between Cuba and Tanzania began yesterday at the
Palace of the Revolution in Havana. The Cuban delegation was headed by
Commander in Chief Fidel Castro, party first secretary and prime minister
of the Revolutionary Government. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by
President Julius Nyerere. President Dorticos participated in the. talks,
together with Sergio del Valle--both members of the PCC Central Committee
Politburo. The Tanzanian delegation included Foreign Minister W.S. John
Malecela and Minister of Youth and National Culture Maj Gen S. M.
Sarakikya.

The commander in chief expressed the pleasure of the Cuban party,
government and people at having President Nyerere in our country. And we
expect this visit to tighten the bonds of friendship that unite our
peoples, the first secretary added.

In reply, the Tanzanian president said he was extremely pleased at being in
Cuba and that he greatly appreciated the Cubans' joyful welcome. He spoke
of the political and socioeconomic problems of his country and touched on
important aspects of the African continent.

The Tanzanian delegation received an explanation of our people's liberation
struggle and of how the Cuban revolution had faced U.S. imperialist
aggression. Commander in Chief Fidel Castro dwelt on the decisive role in
the revolutionary process of the political training of our people and the
development of revolutionary awareness. The two delegations also exchanged
views on the important role our peoples can play in the struggle against
colonialism and imperialism. The official talks, begun yesterday, took
place in an atmosphere of broad comradeship and brotherhood.
-END-


 |

