
FIDEL CASTRO, DORTICOS SEND MESSAGE TO PRGRSV LEADERS

Havana Domestic Radio and Television Services in Spanish 2010 GMT 1 May 75
FL


[Text of message sent by Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro and President
Osvaldo Dorticos to PRGRSV officials Nguyen Huu Tho and Huynh Tan
Phat--read by announcer as part of international labor day main event at
Revolution Plaza, Havana]

[Text] Comrade Nguyen Huu Tho, chairman of the Central Committee Presidium
of the National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam, chairman of the
Advisory Council of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the
Republic of South Vietnam, Comrade Huynh Tan Phat, chairman of the PRGRSV,
Ho Chin Minh city--Saigon:

The unconditional surrender of the Saigon regime, the triumphal entry of
the heroic people's liberation armed forces into the capital of South
Vietnam mark the definitive victory of the just cause of the glorious
Vietnamese people who today begin a new phase in their thousand-year
history.

On behalf of the people, Communist Party and Revolutionary Government of
Cuba, which have felt as their own the Vietnamese people's difficult and
long struggle, full of self-denial and sacrifices, and who today also
celebrate the historic victory as their own, we congratulate you with all
out hearts and through you all combatants and people of South Vietnam.

The dream of immortal President Ho Chi Minh, whose example inspired the
anti=Yankee resistance during these 20 years of continued brutal
imperialist aggression, and for a Vietnam completely free and independent,
has become a reality. The grant Vietnamese victory constitutes the most
ignominious defeat for the North American imperialists and for all the
reactionary, fascist and couterrevolutionary forces in the entire world,
and it shows to what extent the current balance of forces in the
international arena is in favor of people, or revolution, socialism,
freedom, world peace, and progress.

The momentous simultaneous victories in the Vietnamese and Cambodian
peoples and the consolidation of Laos of a government of national unity, as
well as the successful construction of socialism in the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam, guarantee a brilliant future of the sister nations of Indochina
which have had and will have the militant solidarity of all peoples.

We are certain that the revolutionary victory in all of Indochina will
strongly encourage, with its example, the fight of the people of Asia,
Africa and Latin America against imperialism, for national liberation of
social progress.

In hailing the beautiful and deserving victory which culminates an epic
period that has been followed and admiration by all mankind, we affirm,
dear comrades, the unyielding support of our people to the fraternal people
of Vietnam and out unalterable friendship.

Please accept our expression of out highest regards. Signed: Fidel Castro
Ruz and Osvaldo Dorticos Torredo.
-END-


 |

