
FIDEL CASTRO TOURS CAUJERI VALLEY, MEETS FARMERS

FL022344Y Havana Domestic Service in Spanish 2300 GMT 2 Jul 77 FL

[Text] Near the end of this news cast we received a report from Guantanamo
referring to the tour which our commander in chief, Fidel Castro, first
secretary of the PFF Central Committee, made through the Caujeri valley in
that province.  Fidel was accompanied by Juan Almeida Bosque, Armando Hart,
and Arnaldo Milian, all members of the Politburo; by Alfonso Hodge, party
first secretary in Guantanamo; and by other members of the Central
Committee.

In the Caujeri valley, the head of the revolution discussed with the
Guantanamo leaders agricultural development prospects, the construction of
dams and small dams, and the development of the road system, including the
construction of roads, agricultural-livestock roads, and roads through the
mountains, among others.

The president of the State Council held a meeting with farmers in that area
in which he analyzed the importance of hydraulic development in order to
increase yields in agricultural production and improve social conditions,
and the importance of the integration of cooperatives.  The small farmers
in the Caujeri valley in Guantanamo expressed to Fidel their willingness to
participate in the construction of four water dams, planned for this area,
which will store around 30 million cubic meters to irrigate 260 caballerias
of land.  Also, the farmers expressed to the head of the revolution their
satisfaction over the creation of better social conditions in this valley.
Our commander in chief expressed his idea of what should be done to improve
this area, where over 5,000 persons live.  Regarding this, he said:  It is
duty for the nation to make an effort to aid these people.

In his tour of this area of Guantanamo, Fidel proposed to increase
resources for roads and for repairing them, for hydraulic projects to
develop agricultural plans, and for mountain roads.
-END-


 |

