
FL051302Y Havana Domestic Service in Spanish 2110 GMT 2 Dec 78 FL

[Text of final declaration of 14th Congress of the Central Organization of
Cuban Workers, CTC, read at final session by CTC Secretary General Roberto
Veiga at Havana's Lazaro Pena auditorium--live]

[Text] Comrade Fidel Castro, first secretary of our party and president of
the Councils of State and Ministers; comrades of the Politburo, Secretariat
and Central Committee of the party; comrades of the Presidium, comrade
guests, comrade delegates, comrades all:

Final resolution of the 14th CTC Congress: It read as follows: We have held
the 14th CTC Congress in Havana City from 28 November to 2 December 1978
with the inspiring presence of Comrade Fidel Castro and other leaders of
the party, state and government, as well as a broad and prestigious
representation of the international labor movement.

This event has been a continuation of the historic 13th congress and its
deliberations and resolutions were guided by the teachings and example of
our unforgettable teacher of labor cadres, Lazaro Pena. [applause] The
participants in the congress worked hard to that its results would be
worthy of our working people, our trade union organization and our glorious
Communist Party. [applause]

With a deep spirit of criticism, revolutionary militancy and exemplary
discipline, the delegates to the congress debated and approved the main
report, new bylaws [of the CTC] and various resolutions and documents with
summarize the vast and democratic process of discussion of theses and
establish lines of action of the labor movement for coming years.

The representatives of all country's workers, by means of their free,
direct and secret vote, elected the CTC national council.
-END-


 |

