
Praises Jackson

FL281142 Havana Television Service in Spanish 0000 GMT 28 Jun 84

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro, president of the Councils of State
and Ministers, today attended a ceremony in honor of the martyr of the U.S.
black movement, Martin Luther King. Jesse Jackson, candidate for the
Democratic nomination for president of the United States, also attended the
ceremony, which was organized by the Ecumenical Council. Jackson spoke in
favor of peace and political negotiations.

Commander in Chief Fidel Castro spoke during the activity and stated: I
join with all my heart this well-deserved homage to the illustrious and
heroic figure of the U.S. people, Martin Luther King. Fidel also referred
to the visit by Rev Jesse Jackson:

[Begin recording] [Applause] [Castro] I want to remind you in these very
brief remarks of the very profound impression that Rev Jesse Jackson has
made on all of us, because of his honesty, his talent, his sincerity, his
honor, and the profound passion with which he fights for peace and
friendship among the peoples; with which he fights for better relations.
And I consider him an extraordinary spokesman of the highest ideas of
Christian thought. [applause]

At the same time, I would like to express the profound impression he is
making on us for his extraordinary political and moral bravery. [applause]
Only a man of his character, with his moral and political courage would
have been big enough, in the midst of some many campaigns of lies, in the
midst of so many (?pressures), to visit our country with no fear at all and
peacefully and amicably meet with us and our people.

For this reason, I believe there is, in one phase, a conception of Jackson.
Not only is he a representative symbol of Christian thought, but he is
also, in my opinion, the bravest of U.S. politicians. [applause] It has
been a great honor and a great pleasure to have accompanied you this
afternoon. Thank you very much. [applause] [end recording]
-END-


 |

