
AFP Expands on Statement

PA061728 Paris AFP in Spanish 1449 GMT 6 Apr 84

[Text] Paris, 6 Apr (AFP) -- Cuban President Fidel Castro said here today
that the mining of the principal Nicarguan ports is a "new form of
aggression" used in the past few weeks against Nicaragua and tacitly blamed
the United States for these actions. Castro made this statement during an
interview for Channel 1 of French Television, broadcast in the early
afternoon in France.

"These mines are very sophisticated U.S.-made weapons. The mercenary bands
are only used as a screen, but we have reason to believe that they are
being placed by CIA teams, who are also using CIA ships to carry out the
mining of the ports," Castro said.

After warning about the seriousness of this escalation, which is definitely
a military blockade against Nicaragua to prevent the arrival of raw
material, fuel, medicines, and food, the "maximum leader" of the Cuban
revolution added:

"This is a very serious and inconceivable action in times of peace, which
-- in my opinion -- warrants a very strong protest and condemnation from
the international community."

In replying to his interviewer, Castro stressed that both Nicaragua and the
Salvadoran revolutionary movement are in favor of a negotiated political
solution, "to which the U.S. Government is obstinately opposed."

In replying to another question, he said that the political changes in
Argentina have logically contributed to improved relations between Havana
and Buenos Aires. He added that "a delegation from that country visited us
recently to discuss trade matters, with satisfactory results." He stressed
that "the change in Argentina marks a turnaround in the Latin American
political situation, particularly in South America. I could reaffirm my
opinion that military rightist dictatorships are in crisis."

"This was demonstrated in Argentina, but it can also be seen in the
evolution of events in Uruguay, Chile, and Brazil," Fidel Castro concluded.
-END-


 |

