
Leaves for Nicaragua

FL281124 Havanna Domestic Service in Spanish 1000 GMT 28 Jun 84

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro, president of the Councils of State
and Ministers, said good-by to Rev Jesse Jackson, Democratic candidate for
the U.S. presidency, on Wednesday. The top Cuban leader accompanied Jackson
on board the Boeing 707 that carried the U.S. Democratic Party delegation
to Nicaragua.

Jesse Jackson and his delegation have completed a 46-hour visit to Cuba.
They will return today, Thursday, to pick up a group of 22 released U.S.
prisoners who will then be flown to the United States. During his last day
in Cuba, Jackson had a busy activities schedule that included a visit to
the Isle of Youth and to Havanna University, where he was accompanied by
Commander in Chief Fidel Castro. Speaking in the main auditorium of Havanna
University, Jackson made an ardent call for the struggle for peace and
against social injustice.

Later, Fidel and Jesse Jackson participated in a religious ceremony
dedicated to the memory of U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King; the
ceremony was part of a theological event which has been going on in Havanna
during the past several days. In his address to those attending the
ceremony, Fidel said that he supported in all sincerity the homage to the
memory of the great civil rights leader.

Fidel then expressed the great impression that Rev Jackson has made on him.
Fidel praised the passion with which Jackson struggles for peace and
friendship among peoples, describing him as an extraordinary interpreter of
the best thoughts of Christian philosophy.
-END-


 |

