
CASTRO: EFFECTS OF U.S. EMBARGO STILL FELT

Mexico City PIMSA in Spanish 0152 GMT 20 Aug 75 FL--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

[Excerpt] Santa Clara, Cuba, 19 Aug (PIMSA)-- The prime minister of Cuba,
Fidel Castro Ruz, announced here today that he will make an official visit
to Mexico during the first quarter of 1976. Castro Ruz held brief meeting
with newsmen at the guest house of a sugar storage center which President
Echeverria, who was warmly welcomed in Cienfuegos, was visiting. The Cuban
prime minister said that imperialism is to blame for the separation among
the nations of Latin America. He added that the embargo imposed by the
United States has not been lifted, and that its effects are still being
felt because many nations are participating in it.

Castro's dialog with the representatives of the mass news media from many
parts of the world opened with the Cuban prime minister's statement to the
effect that it a detente has not ended [as received] with the United
States, at least the North American are less hostile. He recognized that
the Latin American Economic System (SELA) will be an excellent means to
revitalize Latin American integration. He said in this connection: We have
always been on the side of the Latin American family and that is why Cuba
supports SELA.

Fidel Castro accused the news media of having sequestered freedom in many
Latin American nations, thereby perpetuating the separation of the
countries of the region. Before concluding his interview, which was
sprinkled with witty remarks, and during which he replied jokingly at times
and at others with his characteristic seriousness, Fidel Castro spoke of
the growing friendship with President Luis Echeverria which began with
contacts and was strengthened during the president's visit.
-END-


 |

