
REPORTAGE CONTINUES ON THIRD FEU CONGRESS

Castro, Students Discuss 'Fraud'

FL121220 Havana Television Service in Spanish 1800 GMT 10 Jan 87

[Announcer-read report followed by video showing meeting hall, young
people, and Castro speaking from presiding table]

[Text] [Announcer] Attended by our commander in chief, Fidel Castro, first
secretary of the party Central Committee and president of the Councils of
State and Ministers, the sessions of the Third Congress of the Federation
of University Students [FEU] resumed today. Academic fraud was broadly
debated in this morning's session. Instances of fraud in various higher
education centers from all parts of the country were analyzed in depth. Our
commander in chief took the floor more than once to ask for clarification.

[FEU President Maria de Jesus Calderius] Would anyone like to comment on
this?

[Unidentified speaker] We have done so much inventing that we have resorted
to these Machiavellian mechanisms. We have tried to break into departments,
file away the bars, get in through the false ceiling, go down, obtain keys
to all the departments, a thousand things. We felt it was our obligation to
speak about this problem because of the magnitude and the number of
students that were involved. The other aspect that we would like to bring
up is the technical science detachment. The....

[Castro, interrupting] Comrade, before going on, we should speak about
fraud. Then we can talk about the detachment and other problems. What
measures were taken against them? I know that there was that case of fraud.
It was shameful. It's something that discredits the students, the young,
something that is shameful to the revolution as well, very shameful. To
think that a fraud of the sort you mention could occur, like the one in
Villa Clara. Who knows if there is another case like that which we don't
know about? What measures were taken against those students?

[Second unidentified speaker] Twenty-eight were expelled from higher
education; 43 were given indefinite suspensions from higher education.

[Castro] What year were they in?

[Speaker] They belonged to first, second, and third year. There were 91 in
the first year, 73 in the second, and 47 in the third year of study.

[Castro] How many were given indefinite suspensions, 41?

[Speaker] Indefinite suspensions, 45 [as heard].

[Castro] Forty-five. And where did they end up?

[Speaker] Those went to work. They are not supposed to go return to their
schooling. Their cases will be reviewed in 5 years. If they have
outstanding records, they will then be able to return to higher education.

[Castro] What do we want them for? When are there going to be other young
people who are more prepared and better than they are?

[Speaker] Of course.

[Castro] Luckily they were not medical students, because they would never
have been able to enroll again. They are lucky. They still have a chance to
come back. If they had been medical students, they would not have an
opportunity to enroll again in the university. Go on.

[Speaker] Measures were taken against 31 students involving indefinite
suspensions to be reconsidered for the four courses. For reconsideration of
3 courses, 66 students. Conditional suspensions -- that is, students who
were only slightly involved in this -- two. Suspensions for three courses,
19; for two courses, 18. The total: 211.

[Castro] The 211 were penalized?

[Speaker] Yes, mathematics, physics.

[Castro] How long did it take you to find out?

[Speaker] We found out 2 days before the August exam.

[Castro]  Two days before the fraud, or what?

[Speaker] Two days before the exam. A Havana University professor told the
head of one of our departments that his brother, his relative, had the
physics exam that was to be given 2 days later. We immediately changed all
the exams to be given that day. We were hoping to prevent it this way.

[Castro] They stole it?

[Speaker] They stole it. They went in...

[Castro, interrupting] The new exam?

[Speaker] No, they stole the first. Since we learned 2 days before, we
changed 11 exams for that course that day, to prevent the fraud. In other
words, there was no fraud at that time. But we immediately began to
investigate what had happened. That's when we found out that there had been
fraud in the last examination period, and that there had been fraud during
the course as well.

[Castro] Had there ever been a fraud of that magnitude?

[Speaker] In 1976, in the (Cujai) school, a fraud involving 30-odd
students, 40 students.

[Castro] In the year that the country is engaged in the rectification of
errors and struggling against negative tendencies, in this very year, over
200 students of the technology school commit fraud. It is even more
serious.

[Speaker] Of course.

[Castro] It is more serious.

[Announcer] Fidel also referred to the weak political-ideological work
carried out by the FEU in those centers, and the need to further strengthen
the measures taken against those who still carry with them those petty
bourgeois traits that are unworthy of a society such as ours. The plenary
session also came out against the negative attitude of some professors What
was made very clear was that the student is mainly responsible for those
bad habits and that the FEU must be more demanding so that its members may
study more systematically and the teaching-learning process fulfills its
true objectives.

Castro Blames Teachers

FL121703 Havana Radio Reloj Network in Spanish 1902 GMT 10 Jan 87

[Text] Concerning the remarks made by a delegate to the Third Congress of
the Federation of University Students [FEU], Commander in Chief Fidel
Castro has pointed out that the privilege of being a student in Cuba
entails a moral duty whose disregard cannot be viewed with indifference. In
relation to cheating, he said that more forceful measures have to be taken.
-END-


 |

