
Castro Lauds Economic Studies

FL100145 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 10 Jan 87

[Text] During today's session of the Third FEU [Federation of university
students] Congress, in which our Commander in Chief Fidel Castro made
several statements, the delegates turned the event into a critical analysis
of the problems affecting not only university students but also those who
directly influence the construction of socialism in Cuba.

When a delegate referred to the difficulties in placing political economics
graduates, the majority of whom are incorporated as professors, and the
quality of the program of studies, the first secretary of the party Central
Committee underscored the role of those enrolled in this career.

He spoke about the level of requirements needed to study political
economics because of its importance in the construction of socialism, where
concrete and specific situations are given.  Because of this, those
enrolled in this career should be identified by the strictness and level of
specialty.

Fidel said if there had been many economists who were aware, capable, and
revolutionary, errors could have been avoided that were made during the
last few years due to mediocre conceptions, fraud, and other barbarities.

Socialism, added Fidel, is constructed with political, ideological,
revolutionary work that is constant and consequential, not with the
inventions of those who stay up all night (transnochadores), or with
secondary instruments or diabolical mechanisms.

Other topics discussed were sketchiness (esquematismo) and formalism, which
are being confronted in the functioning of the FEU, the poor requirements
in solving some organizational problems, the study-work link, the situation
with the higher institutes of teacher education, and multiple questions
confronted in the medical career.
-END-


 |

