
CASTRO INTERVIEWED ON LATIN AMERICA'S EVOLUTION

PA061711 Havana PRESNA LATINA in Spanish 0827 GMT 6 Apr 87 -- FOR OFFICIAL
USE ONLY

[Report by special reporter Manuel Guerrero]

[Text] Santo Domingo, 6 Apr (PL) -- Cuban President Fidel Castro has
described unequal traded as one of the most brutal things ever to happen,
adding that the Third World countries have been financing the developed
capitalist world during the past few years,

"A cruel exploitation system has been established in the world; the wealth
enjoyed by them ( the capitalist countries) to a large extent is through
our raw materials, iron, cooper, oil, coffee, sugar, fibers, everything,"
he said.

In the second part of an interview in Havana conducted by Jose Francisco
Pena Gomez, president of the Dominican Revolutionary Party, which was
broadcast last night on local television, Castro referred to the experience
of socialist countries in building a new society and stressed that the
results have been positive, although some mistakes have been made.

Castro then referred to the normalization of Cuban relations with the rest
of Latin America and the Caribbean. He said that "times have changes ...
attitudes have changed, not only from our side, but also from the Latin
American governments toward us."

After stressing that the struggle for independence in those countries is
more intense than it was 25 years ago, he noted that "no one dated to look
in a different direction form the one indicated by the United States."

Castro said that the current Latin American and Cuban leaders are capable
of identifying their main common interests and of determining the causes of
their problems, "whether we are socialists or capitalists."

He added: I think that never before has Latin America been so aware of the
contradiction between its most legitimate and vital interests and the
selfish policy of the U.S. Governments, particularly of the current
administration.
-END-


 |

