
Castro Closes Third Havana Enterprise Meeting

Cement Production Discussed

FL0907160288 Havana Television Service in Spanish 0000 GMT 9 Jul 88

[Text] [Announcer Maricela Recasen] Unprofitability and losses in the
cement industry were some of the topics extensively debated this afternoon.

[Begin recording] [Castro] In your opinion, what are the factors that most
affect cement production?  It's not the work force because that is a small
portion of the cost.  Oil and energy are the primary cost factors.

[Cement union enterprise director] That's what I was saying, Commander.  We
have to make better use of our resources because this is fundamental.
Naturally, oil is an important factor.  If we were more efficient with
production, the oil consumption index could be lowered.

[Castro] How long does it take to recover the costs of a cement factory?

[Director] It takes approximately 23 years.

[Castro] In general, what can the members of the cement union say about
producing 4.2 million tons of cement by 1988 [corrects himself] by 1989 and
4.6 million tons by 1990?  This is very important because of all the plans
we have underway.

[Director] I wanted an opportunity to discuss this topic.  I wasn't able to
do so the other day.  We at least have an idea that...

[Castro, interrupting] We'll produce 3.8 million tons this year with no
problem?

[Director] Yes, well, with no problem...

[Castro interrupting] And we'll produce 4.2 million tons by 1989...

[Director, interrupting] It may be a problem, but we'll produce 3.8 million
tons.

[Castro] And in 1989 we'll have 4.2 million tons?

[Director] Yes, now...

[Castro, interrupting] This goal will depend on the situation of some of
the industries.

[Director] That's what I wanted to explain to you.  Last year... [corrects
himself] I mean, through May we were fulfilling the plan by 100 percent,
the goal of 3.8 million tons of cement.  We got behind schedule by 40,000
tons in June because--as you know--of the rains and the ship carrying the
raw material that had trouble in Santiago.  These factors caused us to fall
behind schedule by 40,000 tons.  Our goal is to get back on schedule in
July and August.  [end recording]
-END-


 |

