
Further Concluding Remarks

FL1207165088 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 9 Jul 88

[Text] At the conclusion of the Havana enterprises meeting, Commander in
Chief Fidel Castro, first secretary of the PCC Central Committee,
emphasized that the meeting allowed us to completely delve into the
economic field and that that was the most valuable and historical aspect
of the meeting.  Fidel added that the meeting fulfilled its purpose; it
allowed for an analysis of the problems related to accountability and
costs, and it allowed for us to begin seeing things with much more
responsibility, awareness, and clarity.

[Begin Castro recording] I was able to see in this past year that the
construction enterprises, for example, throughout the country did not have
the slightest idea of costs, not the slightest idea.  They were
(?overwhelmed) by the idea of budgets, earning, bonuses, distribution of
awards, and I don't know by how many other things.  If you asked a
construction worker how much a project cost, he would always talk to you
about the budget for the project. [end recording]

Fidel explained that it is not easy to compute costs and that is why it is
so important to have a basis to calculate the value and the cost of what is
produced.

[Begin Castro recording] It is very important for us to prepare a good
basis.  In construction, how much does an apartment really cost and how
much is it really worth? How much does a dam, road, polyclinic, school,
university, industry, or project cost and how much is it worth?  [end
recording]

He stated these meeting show we will make an extra effort in the creation
of a superior management and planing system for the economy.
-END-


 |

