
Changes in Chile Predicted

FL0610202288 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 6 Oct 88

[Station commentary]

[Text] Come what may, from now on history will be different in Chile, said
Comrade Fidel yesterday.  It would be difficult to find a phrase that could
express so well the situation that now prevails in Chile.  Pinochet, as the
commander in chief said, fell into his own trap.  Actually, there was not
doubt as tot he true result of the plebiscite.  We even believe that the
vote for the "no" was much greater than the 54 percent cited by the regime.
In his speech, Fidel asked himself:  Who could think that a people such as
the Chileans could forget the crimes that were committed during these 15
years, the constant repression, the hundreds of people that disappeared and
were tortured daily.  The question was:  What would be the regime's
immediate response?

Evidently, there was a farce in progress to legitimize Pinochet's permanent
hold on power.  That is why there were fears of a huge fraud.  As it turned
out, the situation generated such a political atmosphere that fraud was
virtually impossible.  At that point, Pinochet was forced to accept defeat
and tried to save his self-respect by giving himself a doubtful 44 percent
of the votes.  What is going to happen now?  It is hard to predict.
However, the regime will probably try to perpetuate itself by resorting to
one type of trickery or another.

The Constitution was concocted by the military, and in the course of the
Year there can be many manipulations.  Being aware of the new political
spectrum, the opposition apparently will try to negotiate for a faster
transition toward democracy.  However, on the part of the military,
nothing is clear at all, but come what may, we repeat with Fidel:  From no
on history will be different in Chile.
-END-


 |

