
Nature of Investments Viewed

FL1107230088 Havana Tele-Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 9 Jul 88

[Excerpts] [First announcer] Last night our Commander in Chief Fidel
Castro, first secretary of the PCC Central Committee and president of the
Councils of State and Ministers, closed the third meeting of Havana
enterprises.  Many things were learned from this meeting, which was held
for 2 days at Havana's Karl Marx Theater. [passage omitted]

[Second announcer] Fidel's explanation on why state investments are not
always of an economic nature was of great interest to the more than 4,000
delegates and guests present at the penary hall.  In reference to this
topic, the highest leader of the Cuban revolution said that it is necessary
to seek a more even distribution between social advancement and what is
invested in the country's economic development.

[Begin Castro recording] Quit building houses.  Make the decision to not
build houses for 10 years so that you can invest those resources into the
economy.  What does this create?  It creates a terrible social problem and,
in the end, it creates a terrible political problem.  In the end, what can
you offer the people?  You can offer them nothing.  They can live in some
kind of quarters, seven in a room, without water, without anything.

An aqueduct, as we see it, can be a social expense.  If you build
irrigation canals and not aqueducts, the city will be left without water.
This is a problem.

The polyclinic is not just a simple social expense because the health of
the citizen and the health of the worker is indispensable for the economy
and services.

Some people make calculations that I never like to make but sometimes they
say:  So many sick people, so many hours lost at work.  I don't ever like
to reduce the people's human problems to economic terms. [applause] [end
-END-


 |

