
Havana on Castro Activities

PA1008032588 Havana International Service in Spanish 2350 GMT 9 Aug 88

[Report by Pedro Martinez Pirez from Quito, Ecuador--live]

[Excerpts]  Good evening, Radio Havana listeners.  Greetings from Quito,
Ecuador.  Today, 9 August, has been quite a day here.  Many heads of state
have arrived here today.  Since the Cuban president's arrival in Quito, he
has had a full schedule.  President Castro placed wreaths at Sucre's grave
at Metropolitan Cathedral and at the monument to honor Ecuadoran heroes at
Independence Square.  During his tour of the old sector of Quito, President
Castro was constantly surrounded by people carrying Cuban flags and
shouting:  Long live Fidel! and Long live Cuba!  It was truly amazing how
the Ecuadoran people expressed their love for the Cuban revolution and for
Fidel Castro.

This afternoon President Fidel Castro paid a visit to Portuguese President
Mario Soares at this residence.  He also visited the Guayasamin Foundation
and many prominent visitors, such as French President Francois Mitterrand's
wife, Salvador Allende's widow, members of delegations who are in Ecuador
to attend the sweating in ceremony, and reporters.

While at the Guayasamin Foundation, President Fidel Castro was approached
by reporters and he gave them an impromptu and short news conference.
During the news conference, the head of the Cuban revolution talked about
everything.  He talked about the problems in Africa and his views regarding
the South African situation.  He also talked about Latin America and said
he can see the democratic process in Latin America is advancing and
consolidating.  [passage omitted]

Tonight, President Fidel Castro will have a private dinner with outgoing
Ecuadoran President Leon Febres-Cordero.  [passage omitted]
-END-


 |

