
Havana Version of Response

FL1008021788 Havana Television Service in Spanish 0000 GMT 10 Aug 88

[Statement by President Fidel Castro upon arrival in response to a
welcoming speech by President Leon Febres-Cordero; at an Ecuadorean Air
Force base near the Mariscal Sucre International Airport in Quito on 9
August--recorded]

[Text] Ecuadoreans:  I must confess that I felt a profound emotion as I was
approaching this brother country and this legendary city of Quito.  The
emotions felt by a visitor, as seen from the air, are unforgettable:  the
mountains, volcanoes, valleys, and the cities.  For me, it was of special
significance the fact that I was approaching a historic city, more than
historic, a prehistoric city, as I was approaching a heroic, courageous
nation which has written brilliant pages in its history and reminded us of
our own history.

The ties between our two peoples date back a long time.  We could say more
than 150 years.  The president mentioned our current relations.  I believe
that Ecuadoran-Cuban relations honor our two countries.  They represent an
example of the Latin American spirit of integration.  These relations are
evidence of independence for those who dislike seeing us so united.  We are
very honored to maintain the relation we have with Ecuador and our
friendship with the Ecuadoran people.  There is nothing that we would not
do in support of our solidarity and friendship.

I have just arrived:  however, I know that there is still much excitement
that awaits me.  It would be difficult to describe a landscape more
beautiful that this one.  It would be difficult to describe a bluer and
more beautiful sky.  This is the sky of independence, of liberty.  It is
the sky of the glory won by the heroism of the Ecuadoreans.  Thank you very
much. [applause]
-END-


 |

