
Castro Visits Multipurpose Hall in Camaguey

FL27022089 Havana Radio Reloj Network in Spanish 2100 GMT 27 Jul 89

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro has characterized Camaguey
Province's sports palace as a marvel fit for the new Camaguey.  He said
this during a tour through the installation known as the multipurpose hall.
The Rafael Fortun Multipurpose Hall is located next to the Ignacio
Agramonte Square which was used by the people of Camaguey for the first
time during the main ceremony marking 26 July.

Bertha Sendra, planning director in the province, briefed Fidel about the
construction plans for the city's new political-administrative center and
projects that will be built around the Revolution Square.  The commander in
chief was told that another 26-story building will be built next to the
Camaguey Square.  He was told that the first steps are already being taken
to build the new project.

Castro inquired about the quality of the court, construction in general,
and the 13 disciplines that can be practiced at the multipurpose hall.
Fidel asked about the possibility of using the beautiful Camaguey
installation for other events, a Sylvio Rodriguez performance, for example.
He was told that this could be done and that, in addition to cultural
activities, it could be used for circus shows.  Fidel asked which sports
would totally fill the stands with room for 12,000 spectators.  He was told
this would happen with volleyball games and good wrestling and boxing
matches.

The commander in chief said hello to 71-year-old Gloria Gregori Alvarez at
Camaguey's multipurpose hall.  She works at the hydroeconomy enterprise and
contributed over 1,600 voluntary work hours to salute 26 July.
-END-


 |

