
Castro, Hoyte at Isle of Youth

FL3001131789 Havana Radio Progreso Network in Spanish 1200 GMT 30 Jan 89

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro believes that Namibia's independence
is a fact that cannot be changed.  Fidel made this statement yesterday as
he spoke to thousands of Namibian students on the Isle of Youth.  The Cuban
president accompanied Guyanese Chief of State Hugh Desmond Hoyte on a tour
of the special municipality.

Fidel said that what is important now is to ensure that the racists and
their allies not steal from Namibians their independence.  He said that
one of the factors to ensure it doesn't happen is to not reduce the size of
the UN force which will monitor the transition.  The chief of the Cuban
state added that the Nonaligned Movement is fighting a tense battle in the
UN against the proposal for reduction due to economic reasons.  Fidel said
that the UN Secretariat's general report, which is proposing the reduction,
does not satisfy Third World countries or the friends of the just cause of
the Namibian people.  Nevertheless, he stated that free elections will not
only depend on the presence of the UN force, but also on the mobilization
and unity of the Namibian people.  The Cuban president emphasized that,
along with independence, a people's government, SWAPO [South-West African
People's Organization], is necessary in Namibia.  He added that we have no
doubt that the large majority will vote against the oppressors and their
puppets.

The Guyanese president, who also spoke during the event, called the school
for Namibian students a wonderful example of human solidarity.  Desmond
Hoyte said:  You are privileged because there are millions of children and
young people like yourselves who do not have the opportunity to get an
education.  In closing, the Guyanese leader urged the Namibian students to
get the training that will become the heritage of their fatherland when
they return there.
-END-


 |

