
Castro Gives Banner to Ciego de Avila Contingent

FL0805131089 Havana Radio Progreso Network in Spanish 1100 GMT 8 May 89

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro has presented the banner creating
the Vaquerito and Heroes de Cuito Cuanavale construction contingents in
Ciego de Avila.  The Vaquerito contingent is constructing the causeway that
will link the northern coast of Ciego de Avila Province with Cayo Coco. The
other contingent is implementing important hydraulic engineering projects
to desalinize the Laguna de la Leche.  The two projects are part of the
country's tourism development program.

In a speech he gave at the ceremony in which the contingents were created,
Fidel highly praised the work of the two collectives.  The commander in
chief said:  You are shaping the future and the new generations of our
country will always be grateful for this.  Fidel also explained and
stressed the significance and importance of the projects under
construction.  He said that only socialism can convert areas such as Cayo
Coco into a source of well-being and wealth for the country. Cayo Coco will
provide vast resources for the nation, he said.  Currently, 26,000 workers
have formed contingents and they produce twice as much with half the number
of workers and equipment, he added.  Fidel said that it is necessary to
make up for lost time.  Throughout the country, he added, there are tens of
thousands of Cubans following the example, set by the members of these
contingents.  This is what is truly means to be a patriot a vanguard, a
revolutionary, he added.

Fidel later said that attention to man is the main reason for the success
of the contingents.  The commander in chief said:  Man cannot be bought
with money but he can be won over with attention, recognition, and honor.

In conclusion, Fidel stressed:  Tomorrow we will be able to tell future
generations that these true revolutionaries of today made the new
fatherland possible.
-END-


 |

