
Ends Ciego de Avila Tour

FL1005023389 Havana Television Service in Spanish 0000 GMT 9 May 89

[Text] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro, first secretary of the Communist
Party of Cuba [PCC] Central Committee and president of the Councils of
State and Ministers, ended today his visit to important projects related
mainly to the development of water resources management and tourism in
Ciego de Avila Province.

Today began with a meeting between the leader of the Revolution and
students and teachers of the William Soler semiboarding school located on
the Isla de Turiguano, north of Moron Municipality, and senior citizen
Manuel Fajardo Perez, who showed with emotion his admiration for Fidel.

[Begin recording] [Fajardo Perez] This is an honor.  [passage indistinct]

[Castro surrounded by children and an old man] Very well.

[Fajardo Perez] [Passage indistinct]

[Castro] Where did he study?

[Unidentified speaker] Yes.  The entire primary school until sixth grade.

[Castro] How many more do you have?

[Speaker] Eight

[Castro] Very well.  Well, let's move along because we have a long trip
today. [children chant:  Fidel! Fidel!] [end recording]

Later, Fidel accompanied by Alfredo Hondal Gonzalez, member of the PCC
Central Committee and first secretary of the party in the province, and
other leaders, went to the Liberacion de Florencia waterworks complex, a
project under construction between the mountains of Chamba and Florencia
Municipalities and will be used to impound some 76 million square meters of
water.  Specifically, where the Chambas 2 Dam is being built, our commander
in chief talked with the mangers and technicians of this waterworks complex
and analyzed with them several aspects of the length and construction
timetable, material and equipment needs, and the future operation of the
dam and the crops it will benefit.

[Begin recording] [Castro] How much gravel have you already used?

[Worker] Some 120,000 meters, commander.

[Castro] How much land has been used so far?

[Worker] One million four hundred [measure not specified].

[Castro] How much have you done so far?

[Worker] some 120,000 meters.

[Castro] Of tobacco?

[Worker] Tobacco and cattle, mainly.

[Castro] Where does the water reach?

[Worker] NO, the water [words indistinct].  The water borders a road that
goes from Tamarindo...

[Castro interrupting] The area.

[Worker] Ah, the entire area?  Some 45 caballerias.

[Castro] Is this the most difficult project?

[Workers] Well, commander, it is one of the most difficult parts of the
project.

[Castro] What will be the water level, the one over there?

[Worker] No, that is not the water level, commander.  A section still needs
to be built there, 3 meters are still left.  The second [words indistinct]
block.

[Castro] That one that is seen at the beginning?

[Worker] Not at the beginning.  That one needs some more work, commander.
Initially, this project was going to be a single dam.  A closure area was
planned for that area but the north circuit had to be detoured.

[Castro] If they had done the closure there, you would have had to close
here also.

[Worker] No, commander.  The problem is that this river, the Chamba River,
goes behind those hills and we would pick it up there with the Canada
Blanca.

[Castro] Ah.  What kind of equipment are you using now?

[Worker] We have the levelers.

[Castro] How many?

[Worker] We have eight levellers.  Five, six, and four are operating.
Those levellers are 13 years old but they are operating.

[Castro] At what distance is the [words indistinct] from the leveller?

[Worker] It is at 1 km, 200 meters of rocky area.  Between 400 and 500
cubic meters, commander.

[Castro] Each one of them.  In what time?

[Worker] Fifteen trucks, commander.

[Castro] What is the type of trucks you have?

[Worker] Well, its one of the latest ones, Pegaso Taino-Pegaso

[Castro] How many do you have of those?

[Worker] Fifteen.

[Castro] How many are being used?

[Worker] We have 10 at this time, commander.  [end recording]

Fidel said that from now on the Construction Ministry should take care of
major projects regarding water resource management projects and the
Agriculture Ministry can develop and build its own irrigation system.  The
chief of the Revolution said he is very pleased with this visit to the
province.  This territory is co-hosting with Camaguey Province the main
events to mark the 36th anniversary of the Mencada Barracks assult.
-END-


 |

