
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Interview with President Fidel Castro by Roberto Paneque on 6 May; place
not given--recorded]

2.  [Text] [Paneque] Commander in Chief Fidel Castro, we are hereby requesting
an exclusive interview for Radio Havana Cuba. We would like to hear what you
have to say.

3.  [Castro] I have just visited the City of Havana command post. I am very
pleased with all the work they have done and with the way this maneuver is
going. It has been very useful in strengthening our defense.

4.  [Paneque] Commander, have you visited other command posts?

5.  [Castro] No, I have not. I have been in contact with everyone. Everyone is
moving around; everyone is at his post. I have received information on what is
going on. I have met with the chiefs more than once and all is going well, very
well. I have heard about the response given by the people and students. I have
heard that many people came out to participate in the maneuvers. I heard that
the number of people who mobilized was greater than expected, greater than
estimated. More people than had been planned showed up. People who were not
scheduled for mobilization wanted to be mobilized.

6.  [Paneque] Has our Cuban Shield manuever held them [the United States] back?

7.  [Castro] We cannot really tell what their intentions are.  What we can say
is that all these exercises are exercises directed against Cuba. They combined
two exercises that in the past were held separately. They have now combined
three exercises, and that is [word indistinct]. We cannot really tell what
their intentions are, but we can say that all these exercises are a practice of
aggression against Cuba. If there were something else behind all this, rest
assured that the measure adopted by us discourages any type of adventure.
Something important we must know is that it is better to mobilize 100 times,
even if nothing happens, than to be surprised once.

8.  This has not only been a mobilization for preventive purposes; this has
also been aimed at perfecting our organization. A series of new and important
ideas is resulting from this maneuver. Every time we hold maneuvers we find our
weak and strong points and we perfect our defense system. We cannot give them
the chance to surprise us.

9.  [Paneque] Thank you, Commander.
-END-


 |

