
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Acceptance speech by Juan Escalona Reguera upon election as president of
the National Assembly of the People's Government, ANPP, at the Palace of
Conventions on 20 February--recorded]

2.  [Text] Comrades, Fidel Castro Ruz, president of the Councils of State and
Ministers, comrade members of the Council of State, comrade deputies, comrade
guests.  You can imagine the emotions that Comrade Zoila [Benitez de Mendoza]
and I have experienced during these hours. To assume the responsibility of
leading the National Assembly of the People's Government in our country is an
honor and great motivation for any revolutionary.

3.  To do this under the conditions that our country, and the world, is living
under at the moment is a serious commitment. We, Zoila and I, want to point out
to the comrade deputies that all our passion, all our condition of being a
revolutionary, will be used to make a reality out of the agreements adopted in
the recent special plenum of the Central Committee of our party. We will
constantly work to rectify and improve the lives of the local organs of the
People's Government and our own assembly. We want to thank the comrade deputies
for this generous election. The number of votes we received surpassed the most
optimistic of our calculations.

4.  We will now continue being what we have always been-- rank soldiers of this
revolution and ready to fulfill any task. If the day came when an attack was
launched against our country, we will face said action with rifles in hand. And
once we have defeated the imperialist enemy, we will return to this assembly to
report to you how we have been able to defeat it and how we are going to build
a country 100 times more beautiful, with less errors, and a more socialist
country. Thank you. [applause]
-END-


 |

