
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Text] The foreign delegations that will attend the inauguration of
President-elect Fernando Collor are beginning to arrive. Thus far the
delegations of Botswana, [word indistinct], and Ecuador have arrived. The
Soviet delegation will arrive tonight. [Words indistinct] of the Supreme Soviet
will represent Mikhail Gorbachev.  Tomorrow 26 delegations are expected to
arrive. U.S.  Vice President Dan Quayle will arrive on 14 March. All chiefs of
state and heads of governments will also arrive on 14 March, except for that of
Guyana, who will arrive tomorrow.

2.  Among these chiefs of state are Carlos Menem of Argentina, Felipe Gonzalez
of Spain, Alan Garcia of Peru, and Mario Soares of Portugal. They will stay, as
usual, at the presidential suite of the National Hotel in downtown Brasilia. So
far 121 countries have confirmed the presence of delegations at the
inauguration of President-elect Fernando Collor, including Cuban President
Fidel Castro, who has visited Brazil only once, in 1961.

3.  In Brasilia, more than 650 rooms in five-star and four-star hotels have
been reserved by Itamaraty for foreign delegations. There are vacancies only in
one, two, and three star hotels.

4.  Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti has arrived in Brazil for the
inauguration of Fernando Collor. He arrived on 11 March in Manaus to learn a
little about the Amazon. The day after tomorrow he will visit Bahia.

5.  The Italian prime minister is expected to arrive in Salvador on 14 March.
He will participate in the dedication of San Rafael Hospital, one of the most
modern hospitals in Brazil. [passage indistinct].
-END-


 |

