
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Text] Havana, 28 Dec (PL)--Cuban President Fidel Castro said today that
the Communist Party of Cuba (PCC) is overloaded with employees. That is why its
staff was recently reduced to two-thirds its previous level.

2.  Castro, commenting on what Cubans call ``bloated payrolls,''-- reference to
a surplus of employees--said that ``one of the resources this revolution has
squandered the most is manpower.''

3.  Speaking in his capacity as a deputy during the last session of the
National Assembly of the People's Government (ANPP), he said that the Central
Committee has excessive levels of personnel.

4.  For several months, the PCC has been undergoing a process of restructuring
to prepare for its Fourth Congress, scheduled to take place in early 1991.

5.  In line with that policy, hundreds of provincial and national party
officials have been reassigned to other activities.

6.  Not just in the PCC, but throughout the entire national economic apparatus,
Cuban authorities are engaged in a program of rationalizing the bureaucratic
labor force, which according to priorities must be relocated to agricultural
and construction tasks.

7.  ANPP President Juan Escalona has stated that Cuba has structures that
distort the economy, because ``duplication of effort' ' exists in the
ministries and on down to grassroots organizations.

8.  Escalona asked the deputies and the people to offer suggestions to the ANPP
on how to reduce personnel and at the same time improve the efficiency of
government institutions.

9.  He indicated that the goal is to propose to the Fourth Congress ways to
restructure municipal governments and how many employees are needed to function
efficiently.

10.  These changes are one of the topics to be analyzed for eventual amendments
to the Cuban Constitution next year.
-END-


 |

