
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Report by Gladys Rubio; italicized passages are recorded]

2.  [Excerpt] The National Assembly of the People's Government [ANPP] continued
the discussion of the attorney general's report that was presented yesterday. 
The discussion centers on so-called economic crimes.

3.  [Unidentified speaker] We cannot focus all our attention on missing
inventories in the gastronomic and commercial areas. We also have to look at a
series of crimes such as not meeting the standards for the basic and rotating
assets monitoring subsystems, not updating stock controls, the undue payment of
salaries, and violation of price policies, among many other crimes which,
according to the report, encourage enrichment, speculation, and corruption,
something that is alien to our socialist way of life.

4.  In the analysis of missing inventories in the commercial and gastronomic
network, it was clear that the basic problem lies in the administrative sector,
that is, with the men and women who are responsible for looking after those
goods.

5.  [Fidel Castro] Why is this situation worse in Havana than in the rest of
the country?

6.  [Deputy Rodolfo Jimenez] There are various factors.

7.  [Castro] You spoke about the provinces, about Pinar del Rio and other
places where the problem is not so acute.  Why are missing inventories so large
in Havana?

8.  [Jimenez] Here we have....

9.  [Castro, interrupting] Why is this problem present in so many units?

10.  [Jimenez] The problem is different here. We already have a lot of problems
with managing personnel of the retail units.

11.  [Castro] Correct, the administration management. Now, what is the problem
with the management of the retail units?

12.  [Jimenez] Here the chances for control are not as great as in other
places.

13.  [Castro] Why?

14.  [Jimenez] Because of the numbers of....

15.  [Castro, interrupting] How many units fall under the responsibility of one
of these large municipalities in Havana?

16.  [Jimenez] Marianao has over 400.

17.  [Castro] And the municipality you mentioned before in Pinar del Rio?

18.  [Jimenez] It is smaller. It has 97 units.

19.  [Castro] Ninety-seven; it is small. How do they operate there?  Did they
implement a different type of monitoring besides the inspections and
supervisions?

20.  [Jimenez] This municipality had the same problem in the past until the
administrative management, the union, and the party made a decision on the
matter. We have talked about this before. We decided that anyone who had
missing inventories could not administer a unit.

21.  We were made aware of some experiences, such as the activity of people's
councils and the division into zones in 10 October Municipality in the capital,
which had produced good results. Fidel, however, was concerned about the
creation of new methods because he wanted true control over the administration.

22.  [Castro] Enough of more decisionmaking levels and bureaucracy at each
level. I can think of a zone as a person with authority, with his office such
as the one a family doctor has.  An individual can begin his work in his garage
at home, if he has a garage, or in the living room, or in a room if he only has
one room.  He can meet with the other 10 or 12 members with their chairs and
all they need there. I conceive of this individual as a man with a function. 
This has something to do with giving more power, capabilities, prerogatives,
and participation to the delegates.  We heard a lot about this in the
assemblies.  Well, do you have any proposals?  I am happy to hear new proposals
because I have only heard about inspections, inspections, and inspections. We
heard at the CTC [Cuban Workers Federation] that people are up to their necks
in inspections. [passage omitted]
-END-


 |

