
FULL TEXT OF ARTICLE:
1.  [Text] On the second day of his stay in Santiago de Cuba Province, our
Commander in Chief Fidel Castro toured important food program projects in
Contramaestre Municipality, especially three pig-raising complexes which
already this year should produce [number indistinct] tons of meat.  This is the
only and most intelligent way of ensuring our people's food, because with
isolated small farms it is completely impossible. Now this is showing that we
are right.  This is what the commander in chief said during his stay at this
pig-raising complex, known here as ``Los Pitis,'' which also has a modern
liquid feed plant that can produce 533 tons of pig feed a day.

2.  [Begin recording] [Castro] Nothing this year? Nothing with aerial microjet
irrigation this year?

3.  [Unidentified speaker] Yes, 10 caballerias. Now 10, but we will be
doing....

4.  [Castro, interrupting] [Words indistinct] but he says it has surface
microjet irrigation.

5.  [Speaker] No, no [words indistinct]. There in the Baire area, they can
plant the 10 caballerias this year. The limitation is the hoses, not
the....[changes thought] 10 caballerias, and that is why I was saying, 90 here
and then there will be 100. This year we are going to plant 110 caballerias of
plantains here in Santiago.

6.  [Castro] Both kinds?

7.  [Speaker] Both kinds.

8.  [Castro] How much with aerial irrigation?

9.  [Speaker] Ten caballerias.

10.  [Castro] And later you will have 90 more here, next year?

11.  [Speaker] And then we will have 90 here, next year. [end recording]

12.  As always, the head of the revolution's presence caused spontaneous
expressions of joy and enthusiasm among the inhabitants of the area. Although
it is a mountanous area, it has everything necessary to make the inhabitants'
working and spiritual lives pleasant.

13.  During this day of intense activity in Contramaestre Municipality, Fidel
enjoyed on more than one occasion the delicious [word indistinct] and the
unsurpassed oranges, which are considered to be among the best in the world
because of their abundant juice and sweetness.

14.  On his return to the city of Santiago de Cuba, the president of the
Councils of State and Ministers, always accompanied by Esteban Lazo Hernandez,
the first party secretary in the province, opened one of the five modern
special schools that will operate here for children in the eastern provinces
who have hearing or visual impairment or behavioral disturbances. At a recently
completed school in the town of Boniato which bears the name of the martyr
(Eduardo Mesa Yul), Fidel enjoyed a demonstration of educational and cultural
activities given by teachers and some of the 200 students.

15.  When he signed the visitor's book, the head of the revolution wrote: I
have been very impressed by the school. The effort made to build it has been
worthwhile.  I hope we will soon be able to continue with this beautiful
program.
-END-


 |

